<div class="pb" id="Page_v">v</div>
<p class="tbcenter"><span class="smaller">TO</span>
<br />DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS
<br /><span class="smaller">WHO
<br />MANY YEARS AGO
<br />PLAYED
<br />“JIMMY”
<br />IN THE DRAMATIZED VERSION
<br />OF THIS NOVEL</span></p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_7">7</div>
<h2 id="c1"><span class="small">★ 1 ★</span>
<br /><i>Jimmy Makes a Bet</i></h2>
<p>The main smoking-room of the Strollers’ Club had been
filling for the last half-hour, and was now nearly full. In
many ways the Strollers’, though not the most magnificent, is
the pleasantest club in New York. Its ideals are those of the
Savage Club—comfort without pomp—and it is given over
after eleven o’clock at night mainly to the Stage. Everybody is
young, clean-shaven, and full of conversation—and the conversation
strikes a purely professional note.</p>
<p>Everybody in the room on this July night had come from the
theatre. Most of those present had been acting, but a certain
number had been to the opening performance of the latest
better-than-“Raffles” play. There had been something of a
boom that season in dramas whose heroes appealed to the public
more pleasantly across the footlights than they might have done
in real life. In the play which had opened tonight Arthur Mifflin,
an exemplary young man off the stage, had been warmly applauded
for a series of actions which, performed anywhere except in the
theatre, would certainly have debarred him from remaining a
member of the Strollers’ or any other club. In faultless evening
dress, with a debonair smile on his face, he had broken open a
safe, stolen bonds and jewellery to a large amount, and escaped
without a blush of shame via the window. He had foiled a detective
through four acts and held up a band of pursuers with a revolver.
A large audience had intimated complete approval throughout.</p>
<p>“It’s a hit all right,” said somebody through the smoke.</p>
<p>“These imitation ‘Raffles’ plays always are,” grumbled Willett,
who played bluff fathers in musical comedy. “A few years ago
they would have been scared to death of putting on a show with a
criminal hero. Now, it seems to me, the public doesn’t want
anything else. Not that they know what they do want,” he
concluded mournfully.</p>
<p><i>The Belle of Boulogne</i>, in which Willett sustained the role of
<span class="pb" id="Page_8">8</span>
Cyrus K. Higgs, a Chicago millionaire, was slowly fading away
on a diet of free passes, and this possibly prejudiced him.</p>
<p>Raikes, the character-actor, changed the subject. If Willett
once got started on the wrongs of the ill-fated <i>Belle</i>, general conversation
would become impossible. Willett, denouncing the
stupidity of the public, was purely a monologue artiste.</p>
<p>“I saw Jimmy Pitt at the show,” said Raikes. Everybody
displayed interest.</p>
<p>“Jimmy Pitt? When did he come back? I thought he was in
England?”</p>
<p>“He came on the <i>Mauretania</i>, I suppose. She docked this
morning.”</p>
<p>“Jimmy Pitt?” said Sutton, of the Majestic Theatre. “How
long has he been away? Last I saw of him was at the opening of
<i>The Outsider</i>, at the Astor. That’s a couple of months ago.”</p>
<p>“He’s been travelling in Europe, I believe,” said Raikes.
“Lucky beggar to be able to. I wish I could.”</p>
<p>Sutton knocked the ash off his cigar.</p>
<p>“I envy Jimmy,” he said. “I don’t know any one I’d rather be.
He’s got much more money than any man, except a professional
plute, has any right to. He’s as strong as an ox. I shouldn’t say
he’d ever had anything worse than measles in his life. He’s got no
relations. And he isn’t married.”</p>
<p>Sutton, who had been married three times, spoke with some
feeling.</p>
<p>“He’s a good chap, Jimmy,” said Raikes. “Which considering
he’s an Englishman——”</p>
<p>“Thanks,” said Mifflin.</p>
<p>“How’s that? Oh, beg pardon, Arthur; I keep forgetting that
you’re one, too.”</p>
<p>“I’ll tattoo a Union Jack on my forehead tomorrow.”</p>
<p>“It’ll improve you,” said Raikes. “But about Jimmy. He’s a
good chap, which—considering he’s an Englishman—is only
what you might have expected. Is that better, Arthur?”</p>
<p>“Much,” said Mifflin. “Yes, Jimmy is a good chap—one of the
best. I’ve known him for years. I was at school and Cambridge
with him. He was about the most popular man at both. I should
say he had put more deadbeats on their legs again than half the
men in New York put together.”</p>
<p>“Well,” growled Willett, whom the misfortunes of <i>The Belle</i>
had soured, “what’s there in that? It’s mighty easy to do the
<span class="pb" id="Page_9">9</span>
philanthropist act when you’re next door to a millionaire.”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Mifflin warmly; “but it’s not so easy when you’re
getting thirty dollars a week on a newspaper. When Jimmy was
a reporter on the <i>News</i> there used to be a whole crowd of fellows
just living on him. Not borrowing an occasional dollar, mind
you, but living on him—sleeping on his sofa and staying to
breakfast. It made me mad. I used to ask him why he stood it.
He said there was nowhere else for them to go, and he thought he
could see them through all right. Which he did, though I don’t
see how he managed it on thirty dollars a week.”</p>
<p>“If a man’s fool enough to be an easy mark——” began Willett.</p>
<p>“Oh, stop it,” said Raikes. “We don’t want anybody knocking
Jimmy here.”</p>
<p>“All the same,” said Sutton, “it seems to me that it was
darned lucky that he came into that money. You can’t keep
open house for ever on thirty a week. By the way, Arthur, how
was that? I heard it was his uncle.”</p>
<p>“It wasn’t his uncle,” said Mifflin. “It was by way of being a
romance of sorts, I believe. Fellow who had been in love with
Jimmy’s mother years ago. Went to Australia, made a fortune,
and left it to Mrs. Pitt or her children. She had been dead some
time when that happened. Jimmy, of course, hadn’t a notion of
what was coming to him, when suddenly he got a solicitor’s
letter, asking him to call. He rolled round, and found that there
was about five hundred thousand dollars waiting for him to
spend it.”</p>
<p>Jimmy Pitt had now definitely ousted <i>Love, the Cracksman</i>, as
a topic of conversation. Everybody present knew him. Most of
them had known him in his newspaper days; and though every
man there would have perished rather than admit it, they were
grateful to Jimmy for being exactly the same to them now that
he could sign a cheque for half a million as he had been on the
old thirty-a-week basis. Inherited wealth, of course, does not
make a young man nobler or more admirable; but the young man
does not always know this.</p>
<p>“Jimmy’s had a queer life,” said Mifflin. “He’s been pretty
nearly everything in his time. Did you know he was on the stage
before he took up newspaper work? Only in touring companies,
I believe. He got tired of it, and dropped it. That’s always been
his trouble. He wouldn’t settle down to anything. He studied
Law at the ’Varsity, but he never kept it up. After he left the stage
<span class="pb" id="Page_10">10</span>
he moved all over the States without a cent, picking up any odd
job he could get. He was a waiter once for a couple of days, but
they sacked him for breaking plates. Then he got a job in a
jeweller’s shop. I believe he’s a bit of an expert on jewels. And
another time he made a hundred dollars by staying three rounds
against Kid Brady, when the Kid was touring the country after
he got the championship away from Jimmy Garwin. The Kid
was offering a hundred to anyone who could last three rounds
with him. Jimmy did it on his head. He was the best amateur of
his weight I ever saw. The Kid wanted him to take up scrapping
seriously. But Jimmy wouldn’t have stuck to anything long
enough in those days. He’s one of the gipsies of the world. He
was never really happy unless he was on the move, and he
doesn’t seem to have altered since he came into his money.”</p>
<p>“Well, he can afford to keep on the move now,” said Raikes.
“I wish I——”</p>
<p>“Did you ever hear about Jimmy and——” Mifflin was beginning,
when the Odyssey of Jimmy Pitt was interrupted by the
opening of the door and the entrance of Ulysses in person.</p>
<p>Jimmy Pitt was a young man of medium height, whose great
breadth and depth of chest made him look shorter than he really
was. His jaw was square and protruded slightly; and this,
combined with a certain athletic jauntiness of carriage and a pair
of piercing brown eyes very much like those of a bull-terrier, gave
him an air of aggressiveness which belied his character. He was
not aggressive. He had the good nature as well as the eyes of a
bull-terrier. He also possessed, when stirred, all the bull-terrier’s
dogged determination.</p>
<p>There were shouts of welcome.</p>
<p>“Holloa, Jimmy!”</p>
<p>“When did you get back?”</p>
<p>“Come and sit down. Plenty of room over here.”</p>
<p>“Where is my wandering boy to-night?”</p>
<p>“Waiter! What’s yours, Jimmy?”</p>
<p>Jimmy dropped into a seat and yawned.</p>
<p>“Well,” he said, “how goes it? Halloa, Raikes! Weren’t you at
<i>Love, the Cracksman</i>? I thought I saw you. Halloa, Arthur!
Congratulate you. You spoke your piece nicely.”</p>
<p>“Thanks,” said Mifflin. “We were just talking about you,
Jimmy. You came on the <i>Mauretania</i>, I suppose?”</p>
<p>“She didn’t break the record this time,” said Sutton.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_11">11</div>
<p>A somewhat pensive look came into Jimmy’s eyes.</p>
<p>“She came much too quick for me,” he said. “I don’t see why
they want to rip along at that pace,” he went on hurriedly. “I
like to have a chance of enjoying the sea air.”</p>
<p>“I know that sea air,” murmured Mifflin.</p>
<p>Jimmy looked up quickly.</p>
<p>“What are you babbling about, Arthur?”</p>
<p>“I said nothing,” replied Mifflin suavely.</p>
<p>“What did you think of the show to-night, Jimmy?” asked
Raikes.</p>
<p>“I liked it. Arthur was fine. I can’t make out, though, why all
this incense is being burned at the feet of the cracksman. To
judge by some of the plays they produce now, you’d think that a
man had only to be a successful burglar to become a national
hero. One of these days we shall have Arthur playing Charles
Peace to a cheering house.”</p>
<p>“It is the tribute,” said Mifflin, “that boneheadedness pays to
brains. It takes brains to be a successful cracksman. Unless the
grey matter is surging about in your cerebrum, as in mine, you
can’t hope——”</p>
<p>Jimmy leaned back in his chair and spoke calmly, but with
decision.</p>
<p>“Any man of ordinary intelligence,” he said, “could break into
a house.”</p>
<p>Mifflin jumped up and began to gesticulate. This was heresy.</p>
<p>“My dear old son, what absolute——”</p>
<p>“I could,” said Jimmy, lighting a cigarette.</p>
<p>There was a roar of laughter and approval. For the past few
weeks, during the rehearsals of <i>Love, the Cracksman</i>, Arthur
Mifflin had disturbed the peace at the Strollers’ with his theories
on the art of burglary. This was his first really big part, and he
had soaked himself in it. He had read up the literature of burglary.
He had talked with detectives. He had expounded his views
nightly to his brother Strollers, preaching the delicacy and
difficulty of cracking a crib till his audience had rebelled. It
charmed the Strollers to find Jimmy, obviously of his own
initiative, and not to be suspected of having been suborned to the
task by themselves, treading with a firm foot on the expert’s
favourite corn within five minutes of their meeting.</p>
<p>“You!” said Arthur Mifflin, with scorn.</p>
<p>“Me—or, rather, I!”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_12">12</div>
<p>“You! Why, you couldn’t break into an egg unless it was a
poached one.”</p>
<p>“What’ll you bet?” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>The Strollers began to sit up and take notice. The magic word
“bet”, when uttered in that room, had rarely failed to add a zest
to life. They looked expectantly to Arthur Mifflin.</p>
<p>“Go to bed, Jimmy,” said the portrayer of cracksmen. “I’ll
come with you and tuck you in. A nice, strong cup of tea in the
morning, and you won’t know there has ever been anything the
matter with you.”</p>
<p>A howl of disapproval rose from the company. Indignant
voices accused Arthur Mifflin of having a yellow streak. Encouraging
voices urged him not to be a quitter.</p>
<p>“See! They scorn you!” said Jimmy. “And rightly. Be a man,
Arthur. What’ll you bet?”</p>
<p>Mr. Mifflin regarded him with pity.</p>
<p>“You don’t know what you’re taking on, Jimmy,” he said.
“You’re half a century behind the times. You have an idea that
all a burglar needs is a mask, a blue chin, and a dark lantern. I
tell you he requires a highly specialised education. I’ve been
talking to these detective fellows, and I know. Now, take your
case, you worm. Have you a thorough knowledge of chemistry,
physics, toxicology——?”</p>
<p>“Of course I have.”</p>
<p>“Electricity and microscopy?”</p>
<p>“You have discovered my secret.”</p>
<p>“Can you use an oxyacetylene blow-pipe?”</p>
<p>“I never travel without one.”</p>
<p>“What do you know about the administration of anaesthetics?”</p>
<p>“Practically everything. It is one of my favourite hobbies.”</p>
<p>“Can you make soup?”</p>
<p>“Soup?”</p>
<p>“Soup,” said Mr. Mifflin firmly.</p>
<p>Jimmy raised his eyebrows.</p>
<p>“Does an architect make bricks?” he said. “I leave the rough,
preliminary work to my corps of assistants. They make my
soup.”</p>
<p>“You mustn’t think Jimmy’s one of your common cracksmen,”
said Sutton. “He’s at the top of his profession. That’s how he
made his money. I never did believe that legacy story.”</p>
<p>“Jimmy,” said Mr. Mifflin, “couldn’t
crack a child’s money-box.
<span class="pb" id="Page_13">13</span>
Jimmy couldn’t open a sardine-tin.” Jimmy shrugged his
shoulders.</p>
<p>“What’ll you bet?” he said again. “Come on, Arthur; you’re
earning a very good salary. What’ll you bet?”</p>
<p>“Make it a dinner for all present,” suggested Raikes, a canny
person who believed in turning the wayside happenings of life,
when possible, to his personal profit.</p>
<p>The suggestion was well received.</p>
<p>“All right,” said Mifflin. “How many of us are there? One,
two, three, four. Loser buys a dinner for twelve.”</p>
<p>“A good dinner,” interpolated Raikes softly.</p>
<p>“A good dinner,” said Jimmy. “Very well. How long do you
give me, Arthur?”</p>
<p>“How long do you want?”</p>
<p>“There ought to be a time limit,” said Raikes. “It seems to me
that an expert like Jimmy ought to be able to manage it at short
notice. Why not to-night? Nice, fine night. If Jimmy doesn’t
crack a crib to-night, it’s up to him. That suit you, Jimmy?”</p>
<p>“Perfectly.”</p>
<p>Willett interposed. Willett had been endeavouring to drown
his sorrows all the evening, and the fact was a little noticeable in
his speech.</p>
<p>“See here,” he said; “how’s J-Jimmy going to prove he’s done
it?”</p>
<p>“Personally, I can take his word,” said Mifflin.</p>
<p>“That be h-hanged for a tale. Wha-what’s to prevent him
saying he’s done it, whether he has or not?”</p>
<p>The Strollers looked uncomfortable. However, it was Jimmy’s
affair.</p>
<p>“Why, you’d get your dinner in any case,” said Jimmy. “A
dinner from any host would smell as sweet.”</p>
<p>Willett persisted with muddled obstinacy.</p>
<p>“Thash—thash not point. It’s principle of thin. Have thish
thing square and ’bove-board, I say. Thash what I say.”</p>
<p>“And very creditable to you being able to say it,” said Jimmy
cordially. “See if you can manage ‘Truly rural.’”</p>
<p>“What I say is this. Jimmy’s a fakir. And what I say is, what’s
prevent him saying he’s done it when hasn’t done it?”</p>
<p>“That’ll be all right,” said Jimmy. “I’m going to bury a brass
tube with the Stars and Stripes in it under the carpet.”</p>
<p>“Thash quite shfactory,” said Willett, with dignity.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_14">14</div>
<p>“Or, a better idea,” said Jimmy, “I’ll carve a big J on the
inside of the front door. Well, I’m off home. Anybody coming
my way?”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Mifflin. “We’ll walk. First nights always make me
as jumpy as a cat. If I don’t walk my legs off I shan’t get to sleep
to-night at all.”</p>
<p>“If you think I’m going to help you walk your legs off, my lad,
you’re mistaken. I propose to stroll gently home and go to bed.”</p>
<p>“Every little helps,” said Mifflin. “Come along.”</p>
<p>“You want to keep an eye on that man Jimmy, Arthur,” said
Sutton. “He’d sand-bag you and lift your watch as soon as look
at you. I believe he’s Arsène Lupin in disguise.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_15">15</div>
<h2 id="c2"><span class="small">★ 2 ★</span>
<br /><i>The New Pyramus and Thisbe</i></h2>
<p>The two men turned up the street. They walked in silence.
Arthur Mifflin was going over in his mind such outstanding
events of the evening as he remembered—the nervousness, the
relief of finding that he was gripping his audience, the growing
conviction that he had made good—while Jimmy seemed to be
thinking his own private thoughts. They had gone some distance
before either spoke.</p>
<p>“Who is she, Jimmy?” asked Mifflin.</p>
<p>Jimmy came out of his thoughts with a start.</p>
<p>“What’s that?”</p>
<p>“Who is she?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know what you mean.”</p>
<p>“Yes, you do! The sea air. Who is she?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know,” said Jimmy simply.</p>
<p>“You don’t know? Well, what’s her name?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know.”</p>
<p>“Doesn’t the <i>Mauretania</i> still print a passenger list?”</p>
<p>“She does.”</p>
<p>“And you couldn’t find out her name in five days?”</p>
<p>“No.”</p>
<p>“And that’s the man who thinks he can burgle a house!” said
Mifflin despairingly.</p>
<p>They had arrived now at the building on the second floor of
which was Jimmy’s flat.</p>
<p>“Coming in?” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Well, I was rather thinking of pushing on as far as the park.
I tell you, I feel all on wires.”</p>
<p>“Come in and smoke a cigar. You’ve got all night before you
if you want to do Marathons. I haven’t seen you for a couple of
months. I want you to tell me all the news.”</p>
<p>“There isn’t any. Nothing happens in New York. The papers
say things do, but they don’t. However, I’ll come in. It seems to
me that you’re the man with the news.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_16">16</div>
<p>Jimmy fumbled with his latch-key.</p>
<p>“You’re a bright sort of burglar,” said Mifflin disparagingly.
“Why don’t you use your oxyacetylene blow-pipe? Do you
realise, my boy, that you’ve let yourself in for buying a dinner for
twelve hungry men next week? In the cold light of the morning,
when Reason returns to her throne, that’ll come home to you.”</p>
<p>“I haven’t done anything of the sort,” said Jimmy, unlocking
the door.</p>
<p>“Don’t tell me you really mean to try it.”</p>
<p>“What else did you think I was going to do?”</p>
<p>“But you can’t. You would get caught for a certainty. And
what are you going to do then? Say it was all a joke? Suppose
they fill you full of bullet-holes? Nice sort of fool you’ll look
appealing to some outraged householder’s sense of humour,
while he pumps you full of lead with a Colt!”</p>
<p>“These are the risks of the profession. You ought to know that,
Arthur. Think what you went through to-night.”</p>
<p>Arthur Mifflin looked at his friend with some uneasiness. He
knew how entirely reckless he could be when he had set his mind
on accomplishing anything. Jimmy, under the stimulus of a
challenge, ceased to be a reasonable being, amenable to argument.
And in the present case he knew that Willett’s words had driven
the challenge home. Jimmy was not the man to sit still under the
charge of being a “fakir,” no matter whether his accuser had
been sober or drunk.</p>
<p>Jimmy, meanwhile, had produced whisky and cigars, and was
lying on his back on the lounge, blowing smoke rings at the ceiling.</p>
<p>“Well?” said Arthur Mifflin at length.</p>
<p>“Well? What?”</p>
<p>“What I meant was, is this silence to be permanent, or are you
going to begin shortly to amuse, elevate, and instruct? Something’s
happened to you, Jimmy. There was a time when you
were a bright little chap, a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent
fancy. Where be your gibes now, your gambols, your songs, your
flashes of merriment that were wont to set the table in a roar
when you were paying for the dinner? You remind me more of
a deaf-mute celebrating the Fourth of July with noiseless powder
than anything else on earth. Wake up, or I shall go. Jimmy, we
were boys together. Tell me about this girl—the girl you loved
and were idiot enough to lose.”</p>
<p>Jimmy drew a deep breath.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_17">17</div>
<p>“Very well,” said Mifflin complacently; “sigh if you like—it’s
better than nothing.”</p>
<p>Jimmy sat up.</p>
<p>“Yes, dozens of times,” said Mifflin.</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>“You were just going to ask me if I had ever been in love,
weren’t you?”</p>
<p>“I wasn’t, because I know you haven’t. You have no soul. You
don’t know what love is.”</p>
<p>“Have it your own way,” said Mifflin resignedly.</p>
<p>Jimmy bumped back on to the sofa.</p>
<p>“I don’t either,” he said. “That’s the trouble.”</p>
<p>Mifflin looked interested.</p>
<p>“I know,” he said. “You’ve got that strange premonitory
fluttering, when the heart seems to thrill within you like some
baby bird singing its first song, when——”</p>
<p>“Oh, shut up!”</p>
<p>“When you ask yourself timidly, ‘Is it? Can it really be?’ and
answer shyly, ‘No. Yes. I believe it is.’ I’ve been through it
dozens of times. It is a recognised early symptom. Unless prompt
measures are taken it will develop into something acute. In these
matters stand on your Uncle Arthur. He knows.”</p>
<p>“You make me tired,” said Jimmy briefly.</p>
<p>“You have our ear,” said Mifflin kindly. “Tell me all.”</p>
<p>“There’s nothing to tell.”</p>
<p>“Don’t lie, James.”</p>
<p>“Well, practically nothing.”</p>
<p>“That’s better.”</p>
<p>“It was like this.”</p>
<p>“Good!”</p>
<p>Jimmy wriggled himself into a more comfortable position and
took a sip from his glass.</p>
<p>“I didn’t see her till the second day out.”</p>
<p>“I know that second day out. Well?”</p>
<p>“We didn’t really meet at all.”</p>
<p>“Just happened to be going to the same spot, eh?”</p>
<p>“As a matter of fact, it was like this. Like a fool, I’d bought a
second-class ticket.”</p>
<p>“What? Our young Rockerbilt Astergould, the boy millionaire,
travelling second-class! Why?”</p>
<p>“I had an idea it would be better fun. Everybody’s so much
<span class="pb" id="Page_18">18</span>
more cheery in the second cabin. You get to know people so
much quicker. Nine trips out of ten I’d much rather go second.”</p>
<p>“And this was the tenth?”</p>
<p>“She was in the first cabin,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>Mifflin clutched his forehead.</p>
<p>“Wait!” he cried. “This reminds me of something—something
in Shakespeare. Romeo and Juliet? No. I’ve got it!—Pyramus and
Thisbe.”</p>
<p>“I don’t see the slightest resemblance.”</p>
<p>“Read your <i>Midsummer Night’s Dream</i>. ‘Pyramus and Thisbe,’
says the story, ‘did talk through the chink of a wall,’” quoted
Mifflin.</p>
<p>“We didn’t.”</p>
<p>“Don’t be so literal. You talked across a railing.”</p>
<p>“We didn’t.”</p>
<p>“Do you mean to say you didn’t talk at all?”</p>
<p>“We didn’t say a single word.”</p>
<p>Mifflin shook his head sadly.</p>
<p>“I give you up,” he said. “I thought you were a man of
enterprise. What did you do?”</p>
<p>Jimmy sighed softly.</p>
<p>“I used to stand and smoke against the railing opposite the
barber’s shop, and she used to walk round the deck.”</p>
<p>“And you used to stare at her?”</p>
<p>“I would look in her direction sometimes,” corrected Jimmy,
with dignity.</p>
<p>“Don’t quibble! You stared at her. You behaved like a common
rubber-neck, and you know it. I am no prude, James, but I feel
compelled to say that I consider your conduct that of a libertine.
Used she to walk alone?”</p>
<p>“Generally.”</p>
<p>“And now you love her, eh? You went on board that ship
happy, careless, heart-free. You came off it grave and saddened.
Thenceforth for you the world could contain but one woman,
and her you had lost.”</p>
<p>He groaned in a hollow and bereaved manner, and took a sip
from his glass to buoy him up.</p>
<p>Jimmy moved restlessly on the sofa.</p>
<p>“Do you believe in love at first sight?” he asked fatuously. He
was in the mood when a man says things the memory of which
makes him wake up hot all over for nights to come.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_19">19</div>
<p>“I don’t see what first sight’s got to do with it,” said Mifflin.
“According to your own statement, you stood and glared at the
girl for five days without stopping for a moment. I can quite
imagine that you might glare yourself into love with anyone by
the end of that time.”</p>
<p>“I can’t see myself settling down,” said Jimmy thoughtfully.
“And until you feel that you want to settle down, I suppose you
can’t be really in love.”</p>
<p>“I was saying practically that about you at the club just before
you came in. My somewhat neat expression was that you were
one of the gipsies of the world.”</p>
<p>“By George, you’re quite right!”</p>
<p>“I always am.”</p>
<p>“I suppose it’s having nothing to do. When I was on the <i>News</i>
I was never like this.”</p>
<p>“You weren’t on the <i>News</i> long enough to get tired of it.”</p>
<p>“I feel now I can’t stay in a place more than a week. It’s having
this money that does it, I suppose.”</p>
<p>“New York,” said Mifflin, “is full of obliging persons who will
be delighted to relieve you of the incubus. Well, James, I shall
leave you. I feel more like bed now. By the way, I suppose you
lost sight of this girl when you landed?”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“Well, there aren’t so many girls in the United States. Only
twenty million. Or is it forty million? Something small. All
you’ve got to do is to search about a bit. Good night.”</p>
<p>“Good night.”</p>
<p>Mr. Mifflin clattered down the stairs. A minute later the
sound of his name being called loudly from the street brought
Jimmy to the window. Mifflin was standing on the pavement
below, looking up.</p>
<p>“Jimmy?”</p>
<p>“What’s the matter now?”</p>
<p>“I forgot to ask. Was she a blonde?”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“Was she a blonde?” yelled Mifflin.</p>
<p>“No,” snapped Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Dark, eh?” bawled Mifflin, making night hideous.</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Jimmy, shutting the window.</p>
<p>“Jimmy! I say, Jimmy!”</p>
<p>The window went up again.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_20">20</div>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“I prefer blondes myself.”</p>
<p>“Go to bed!”</p>
<p>“Very well. Good night.”</p>
<p>“Good night.”</p>
<p>Jimmy withdrew his head, and sat down on the chair Mifflin
had vacated. A moment later he rose and switched off the light.
It was pleasanter to sit and think in the dark. His thoughts
wandered off in many channels, but always came back to the girl
on the <i>Mauretania</i>. It was absurd, of course. He didn’t wonder
that Arthur Mifflin had treated the thing as a joke. Good old
Arthur! Glad he had made a success. But was it a joke? Who
was it said that the point of a joke was like the point of a needle—so
small that it is apt to disappear entirely when directed
straight at oneself? If anybody else had told him such a limping
romance he would have laughed himself. Only when you are the
centre of a romance, however limping, you see it from a different
angle. Of course, told baldly, it was absurd. He could see that.
But something right at the back of his mind told him that it was
not altogether absurd. And yet—— Love didn’t come like that—in
a flash. You might just as well expect a house to spring into
being in a moment. Or a ship. Or an automobile. Or a table. Or
a—— He sat up with a jerk. In another instant he would have
been asleep.</p>
<p>He thought of bed, but bed seemed a long way off—the deuce
of a way. Acres of carpet to be crawled over, and then the dickens
of a climb at the end of it. Besides undressing. Nuisance—undressing.
That was a nice dress that girl had worn on the
fourth day out. Tailor-made. He liked tailor-mades. He liked all
her dresses. He liked her. Had she liked him? So hard to tell if
you don’t get a chance of speaking. She was dark. Arthur liked
blondes. Arthur was a fool! Good old Arthur! Glad he had made a
success! Now he could marry if he liked. If he wasn’t so restless.
If he didn’t feel that he couldn’t stop more than a day in any
place. But would the girl have him? If they had never spoken it
made it so hard to——</p>
<p>At this point he fell asleep.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_21">21</div>
<h2 id="c3"><span class="small">★ 3 ★</span>
<br /><i>Mr. McEachern</i></h2>
<p>At the time when Jimmy slept in his chair, previous to being
aroused from his slumbers by the invasion of Spike, a certain
Mr. John McEachern, Captain of Police was seated in the parlour
of his up-town villa, reading. He was a man built on a large scale.
Everything about him was large—his hands, his feet, his shoulders,
his chest, and particularly his jaw—which even in his moments of
calm was aggressive, and which stood out, when anything happened
to ruffle him, like the ram of a battleship. In his patrolman
days, which had been passed mainly on the East Side, this jaw of
his had acquired a reputation from Park Row to Fourteenth Street.
No gang-fight, however absorbing, could retain the undivided
attention of the young blood of the Bowery when Mr. McEachern’s
jaw hove in sight, with the rest of his massive person in close
attendance. He was a man who knew no fear, and he had gone
through disorderly mobs like an east wind.</p>
<p>But there was another side to his character. In fact, that other
side was so large that the rest of him, his readiness in combat and
his zeal in breaking up public disturbances, might be said to have
been only an offshoot. For his ambition was as large as his fist and
as aggressive as his jaw. He had entered the Force with the single
idea of becoming rich, and had set about achieving his object with
a strenuous vigour that was as irresistible as his mighty locust-stick.
Some policemen are born grafters, some achieve graft, and
some have graft thrust upon them. Mr. McEachern had begun by
being the first, had risen to the second, and for some years now
had been a prominent member of the small and hugely-prosperous
third-class, the class which does not go out seeking graft,
but sits at home and lets graft come to them.</p>
<p>Though neither his name nor his financial methods suggested it,
Mr. McEachern was by birth an English gentleman. His complete
history would take long to write. Abridged, it may be told as
follows. His real name was John Forrest, and he was the only
<span class="pb" id="Page_22">22</span>
son of one Eustace Forrest, at one time a major in the Guards. His
only other relative was Edward, Eustace’s elder brother, a
bachelor. When Mrs. Eustace died, four years after the marriage,
the widower, having spent eighteen months at Monte Carlo
working out an infallible system for breaking the bank, to the
great contentment of M. Blanc and the management in general,
proceeded to the gardens, where he shot himself in the orthodox
way, leaving many liabilities, no assets, and one son.</p>
<p>Edward, by this time a man of substance in Lombard Street,
adopted John, and sent him to a series of schools, beginning with
a kindergarten and ending with Eton.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, Eton had demanded from John a higher
standard of conduct than he was prepared to supply, and a week
after his eighteenth birthday his career as an Etonian closed
prematurely. Edward Forrest thereupon delivered his ultimatum.
John could choose between the smallest of small posts in his
uncle’s business and £100 in bank-notes, coupled with the usual
hand-washing and disowning. John had reached out for that
money almost before the words had left his uncle’s mouth. He
left for Liverpool that day and for New York on the morrow.</p>
<p>He spent his hundred pounds, tried his hand without success at
one or two odd jobs, and finally fell in with a friendly policeman,
who, observing the young man’s physique, which even then was
impressive, suggested that he should join the Force. The policeman,
whose name was O’Flaherty, having talked the matter over
with two other policemen whose names were O’Rourke and
Muldoon, strongly recommended that he should change his name
to something Irish, the better to equip him for his new profession.
Accordingly, John Forrest ceased to be and Patrolman J.
McEachern was born.</p>
<p>In his search for wealth he had been content to abide his time.
He did not want the trifling sum which every New York policeman
acquires. His object was something bigger, and he was
prepared to wait for it. He knew that small beginnings were an
annoying but unavoidable preliminary to all great fortunes.
Probably Captain Kidd had started in a small way. Certainly Mr.
Rockefeller had. He was content to follow in the footsteps of the
masters.</p>
<p>A patrolman’s opportunities of amassing wealth are not great.
Mr. McEachern had made the best of a bad job. He had not
disdained the dollars which came as single spies rather than in
<span class="pb" id="Page_23">23</span>
battalions. Until the time should arrive when he might angle for
whales he was prepared to catch sprats.</p>
<p>Much may be done, even on a small scale, by perseverance. In
those early days Mr. McEachern’s observant eye had not failed to
notice certain pedlars who obstructed the traffic, divers tradesmen
who did the same by the pavement, and restaurant-keepers not a
few with a distaste for closing at one o’clock in the morning. His
researches in this field were not unprofitable. In a reasonably short
space of time he had put by the $3,000 which were the price of his
promotion to detective-sergeant. He did not like paying $3,000
for promotion, but there must be sinking of capital if an investment
is to prosper. Mr. McEachern “came across”, and climbed
one more step up the ladder.</p>
<p>As detective-sergeant he found his horizon enlarged. There was
more scope for a man of parts. Things moved more rapidly. The
world seemed full of philanthropists anxious to “dress his front”
and do him other little kindnesses. Mr. McEachern was no churl.
He let them dress his front; he accepted the little kindnesses.
Presently he found that he had $15,000 to spare for any small
flutter that might take his fancy. Singularly enough, this was the
precise sum necessary to make him a captain.</p>
<p>He became a captain. And it was then that he discovered that
El Dorado was no mere poet’s dream, and that Tom Tiddler’s
Ground, where one might stand picking up gold and silver, was as
definite a locality as Brooklyn or the Bronx. At last, after years of
patient waiting, he stood like Moses on the mountain, looking
down into the Promised Land. He had come to where the big
money was.</p>
<p>The book he was reading now was the little note-book in which
he kept a record of his investments, which were numerous and
varied. That the contents were satisfactory was obvious at a glance.
The smile on his face, and the reposeful position of his jaw were
proof enough of that. There were notes relating to house property,
railroad shares, and a dozen other profitable things. He was a rich
man.</p>
<p>This was a fact which was entirely unsuspected by his neighbours,
with whom he maintained somewhat distant relations,
accepting no invitations and giving none. For Mr. McEachern was
playing a big game. Other eminent buccaneers in his walk of life
had been content to be rich men in a community where moderate
means were the rule. But about Mr. McEachern there was a
<span class="pb" id="Page_24">24</span>
touch of the Napoleonic. He meant to get back into society—the
society of England. Other people have noted the fact—which had
impressed itself very firmly on the policeman’s mind—that
between England and the United States there are 3,000 miles of
deep water. In the United States he would be a retired police-captain;
in England an American gentleman of large and independent
means with a beautiful daughter.</p>
<p>That was the ruling impulse in his life—his daughter Molly.
Though, if he had been a bachelor, he would certainly not have
been satisfied to pursue a humble career aloof from graft; on the
other hand, if it had not been for Molly he would not have felt, as
he gathered in his dishonest wealth, that he was conducting a sort
of Holy War. Ever since his wife had died, in his detective-sergeant
days, leaving him with a year-old daughter, his ambitions
had been inseparably connected with Molly.</p>
<p>All his thoughts were on the future. This New York life was
only a preparation for the splendours to come. He spent not a
dollar unnecessarily. When Molly was home from school they
lived together simply and quietly in the small house which
Molly’s taste made so comfortable. The neighbours, knowing his
profession and seeing the modest scale on which he lived, told
each other that here, at any rate, was a policeman whose hands
were clean of graft. They did not know of the stream that poured
week by week and year by year into his bank, to be diverted at
intervals into the most profitable channels. Until the time should
come for the great change, economy was his motto. The expenses
of his home were kept within the bounds of his official salary. All
extras went to swell his savings.</p>
<p>He closed his book with a contented sigh and lit another cigar.
Cigars were his only personal luxury. He drank nothing, ate the
simplest food, and made a suit of clothes last for quite an unusual
length of time; but no passion for economy could make him
deny himself smoke.</p>
<p>He sat on, thinking. It was very late, but he did not feel ready
for bed. A great moment had arrived in his affairs. For days Wall
Street had been undergoing one of its periodical fits of jumpiness.
There had been rumours and counter-rumours, until finally from
the confusion there had soared up like a rocket the one particular
stock in which he was most largely interested. He had unloaded
that morning, and the result had left him slightly dizzy. The
main point to which his mind clung was that the time had come
<span class="pb" id="Page_25">25</span>
at last. He could make the great change now at any moment
that suited him.</p>
<p>He was blowing clouds of smoke and gloating over this fact
when the door opened, admitting a bull-terrier, a bulldog, and
in the wake of the procession a girl in a kimono and red slippers.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_26">26</div>
<h2 id="c4"><span class="small">★ 4 ★</span>
<br /><i>Molly</i></h2>
<p>“Why, Molly,” said the policeman, “what are you doing out
of bed? I thought you were asleep.”</p>
<p>He placed a huge arm round her and drew her on to his lap. As
she sat there his great bulk made her seem smaller than she really
was. With her hair down, and her little red slippers dangling half
a yard from the floor, she seemed a child. McEachern, looking at
her, found it hard to realise that nineteen years had passed since
the moment when the doctor’s raised eyebrows had reproved
him for his monosyllabic reception of the news that the baby was
a girl.</p>
<p>“Do you know what the time is?” he said. “Two o’clock.”</p>
<p>“Much too late for you to be sitting here smoking,” said Molly
severely. “How many cigars do you smoke a day? Suppose you
had married some one who wouldn’t let you smoke!”</p>
<p>“Never stop your husband smoking, my dear. That’s a bit of
advice for you when you’re married.”</p>
<p>“I’m never going to marry. I’m going to stop at home and
darn your socks.”</p>
<p>“I wish you could,” he said, drawing her closer to him. “But
one of these days you’re going to marry a prince. And now run
back to bed. It’s much too late——”</p>
<p>“It’s no good, father dear. I couldn’t get to sleep. I’ve been
trying hard for hours. I’ve counted sheep till I nearly screamed.
It’s Rastus’s fault; he snores so.”</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern regarded the erring bulldog sternly.</p>
<p>“Why do you have the brutes in your room?”</p>
<p>“Why, to keep the boogaboos from getting me of course.
Aren’t you afraid of the boogaboos getting you? But you’re so
big, you wouldn’t mind. You’d just hit them. And they’re not
brutes—are you, darlings? You’re angels, and you nearly burst
yourselves with joy because auntie had come back from England,
didn’t you? Father, did they miss me when I was gone? Did they
pine away?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_27">27</div>
<p>“They got like skeletons. We all did.”</p>
<p>“You?”</p>
<p>“I should say so.”</p>
<p>“Then why did you send me away?”</p>
<p>“I wanted you to see the country. Did you like it?”</p>
<p>“I hated being away from you.”</p>
<p>“But you liked the country?”</p>
<p>“I loved it.”</p>
<p>McEachern drew a breath of relief. The only possible obstacle
to the great change did not exist.</p>
<p>“How would you like to go back to England, Molly?”</p>
<p>“To England. When I’ve just come home?”</p>
<p>“If I went, too?”</p>
<p>Molly twisted round so that she could see his face better.</p>
<p>“There’s something the matter with you, father. You’re trying
to say something, and I want to know what it is. Tell me quick, or
I’ll make Rastus bite you!”</p>
<p>“It won’t take long, dear. I’ve been lucky in some investments
while you were away, and I’m going to leave the Force, and take
you over to England and find a prince for you to marry—if you
think you would like it.”</p>
<p>“Father! It’ll be perfectly splendid!”</p>
<p>She kissed him.</p>
<p>“What are you looking so thoughtful about, father?”</p>
<p>“Molly, I want to tell you something I have never told you
before. I am English. I only took the name McEachern because
they thought it would help me in the Force. Our real name is
Forrest.”</p>
<p>“Father! But why haven’t you ever told me before?”</p>
<p>“I was afraid you might ask questions and find out things.”</p>
<p>She looked quickly at him.</p>
<p>“I was sent to America,” he went on, “because I was expelled
from school for stealing.”</p>
<p>There was a silence. She caught the arm that was round her
waist and gave it a little squeeze.</p>
<p>“What does it matter what you did when you were only a boy?”
she said.</p>
<p>He did not look at her. There was a dull flush on his cheeks.</p>
<p>“We’ll go home, Molly,” he said. “I had a place in society over
there till I threw it away, and, by Heaven, I’m going to get it
back for you. You shall have a fair show, whatever I may have
<span class="pb" id="Page_28">28</span>
done. We shall not take the old name again. None of the return of
the black sheep for me! I won’t have people looking down on
you because your father——”</p>
<p>“But, father dear, it was so long ago. What does it matter?
Who would remember?”</p>
<p>“Never mind. I couldn’t risk it. They might say what they
pleased about me, but you’re going to start fair. Who’s to recognise
me after all these years? I’m just John McEachern from America,
and if anybody wants to know anything about me, I’m a man who
has made money on Wall Street—and that’s no lie—and has come
over to England to spend it.” Molly gave his arm another squeeze.
Her eyes were wet.</p>
<p>“Father dear,” she whispered, “I believe you’ve been doing it
all for me. You’ve been slaving away for me ever since I was
born, stinting yourself and saving money just so that I could have
a good time later on.”</p>
<p>“No, no!”</p>
<p>“It’s true,” she said. She turned on him with a tremulous
laugh. “I don’t believe you’ve had enough to eat for years. I
believe you’re all skin and bone. Never mind. To-morrow I’ll
take you out and buy you the best dinner you’ve ever had out
of my own money. We’ll go to the Ritz, and you shall start
at the top of the menu and go straight down till you’ve had
enough.”</p>
<p>“That will make up for everything. And now don’t you think
you ought to be going to bed? You’ll be losing all that color you
got on the ship.”</p>
<p>“Soon. Not just yet. I haven’t seen you for such ages.” She
pointed at the bull-terrier. “Look at Tommy, standing there and
staring. He can’t believe I’ve really come back. Father, there was a
man on the <i>Mauretania</i> with eyes exactly like Tommy’s—all
brown and bright—and he used to stand and stare just like
Tommy’s doing.”</p>
<p>“If I had been there,” said her father wrathfully, “I’d have
knocked his head off.”</p>
<p>“No, you wouldn’t, because I’m sure he was really a very nice
young man. He had a chin rather like yours, father. Besides, you
couldn’t have got at him to knock his head off, because he was
travelling second-class.”</p>
<p>“Second-class? Then you didn’t talk with him?”</p>
<p>“We couldn’t. You wouldn’t expect him to shout at me across
<span class="pb" id="Page_29">29</span>
the railing! Only whenever I walked round the deck he seemed to
be there.”</p>
<p>“Staring?”</p>
<p>“He may not have been staring at me. Probably he was just
looking the way the ship was going, and thinking of some girl in
New York. I don’t think you can make much of a romance out of
it, father.”</p>
<p>“I don’t want to, my dear. Princes don’t travel in the second
cabin.”</p>
<p>“He may have been a prince in disguise.”</p>
<p>“More likely a commercial traveller,” grunted Mr. McEachern.</p>
<p>“Commercial travellers are often quite nice.”</p>
<p>“Princes are nicer.”</p>
<p>“Well, I’ll go to bed and dream of the nicest one I can think of.
Come along, dogs. Stop biting my slipper, Tommy. Why can’t
you behave like Rastus? Still, you don’t snore, do you? Aren’t
you going to bed soon, father? I believe you’ve been sitting up
late and getting into all sorts of bad habits while I’ve been away.
I’m sure you have been smoking too much. When you’ve finished
that cigar you’re not even to think of another till to-morrow.
Promise!”</p>
<p>“Not one!”</p>
<p>“Not one. I’m not going to have my father getting like the
people you read about in the magazine advertisements. You don’t
want to feel sudden shooting pains, do you?”</p>
<p>“No, my dear.”</p>
<p>“And have to take some awful medicine?”</p>
<p>“No.”</p>
<p>“Then promise.”</p>
<p>“Very well, my dear. I promise.”</p>
<p>As the door closed he threw away the stump he was smoking,
and remained for a few moments in thought.</p>
<p>Then he drew another cigar from his case, lit it, and resumed
the study of the little note-book.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_30">30</div>
<h2 id="c5"><span class="small">★ 5 ★</span>
<br /><i>A Thief in the Night</i></h2>
<p>How long the light had been darting about the room like a
very-much-enlarged firefly Jimmy did not know. It seemed
to him like hours, for it had woven itself into an incoherent waking
dream of his; and for a moment, as the mists of sleep passed away
from his brain, he fancied that he was dreaming still. Then sleep
left him, and he realised that the light, which was now moving
slowly across the bookcase, was a real light.</p>
<p>That the man behind it could not have been there long was
plain, or he would have seen the chair and its occupant. He
seemed to be taking the room step by step. As Jimmy sat up
noiselessly, and gripped the arms of the chair in readiness for a
spring, the light passed from the bookcase to the table. Another
foot or so to the left, and it would have fallen on Jimmy.</p>
<p>On it came. From the position of the ray Jimmy could see that
the burglar was approaching on his side of the table. Though,
until that day, he had not been in the room for two months, its
geography was clearly stamped on his mind’s eye. He knew
almost to a foot where his visitor was standing. Consequently
when, rising swiftly from the chair he made a football dive into
the darkness, it was no speculative dive. It had a conscious aim,
and it was not restrained by any uncertainty as to whether the
road to the burglar’s knees was clear or not.</p>
<p>His shoulder bumped into a human leg. His arms closed
instantaneously on it and pulled. There was a yelp of dismay and
a crash. The lantern bounced away across the room and wrecked
itself on the roof of the steam-heater. Its owner collapsed in a
heap on top of Jimmy.</p>
<p>Jimmy, underneath at the fall, speedily put himself uppermost
with a twist of his body. He had every advantage. The burglar was
a small man, and had been taken very much by surprise, and any
fight there might have been in him in normal circumstances had
been shaken out of him by the fall. He lay still, not attempting to
struggle.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_31">31</div>
<p>Jimmy half rose and, pulling his prisoner by inches to the door,
felt up the wall till he found the electric-light button.</p>
<p>The yellow glow which flooded the room disclosed a short,
stocky youth of obviously Bowery extraction. A shock of vivid red
hair was the first thing about him that caught the eye. A poet
would have described it as Titian. Its proprietor’s friends and
acquaintances probably called it “carrots”. Looking up at Jimmy
from under this wealth of crimson was a not unpleasing face. It
was not handsome certainly, but there were suggestions of a
latent good-humour. The nose had been broken at one period of
its career, and one of the ears was undeniably of the cauliflower
type; but these are little accidents which may happen to any high-spirited
young gentleman. In costume the visitor had evidently
been guided rather by individual taste than by the dictates of
fashion. His coat was of rusty-black, his trousers of grey, picked
out with stains of various colours. Beneath the coat was a faded
red-and-white sweater. A hat of soft felt lay on the floor by the
table.</p>
<p>The cut of the coat was poor, and the sit of it spoiled by a bulge
in one of the pockets. Diagnosing this bulge correctly, Jimmy
inserted his hand and drew out a dingy revolver.</p>
<p>“Well?” he said, rising.</p>
<p>Like most people, he had often wondered what he should do if
he were to meet a burglar; and he had always come to the conclusion
that curiosity would be his chief emotion. His anticipations
had proved perfectly correct. Now that he had abstracted his
visitor’s gun he had no wish to do anything but engage him in
conversation. A burglar’s life was something so entirely outside his
experience. He wanted to learn the burglar’s point of view.
Incidentally, he reflected with amusement, as he recalled his
wager, he might pick up a few useful hints.</p>
<p>The man on the floor sat up and rubbed the back of his head
ruefully.</p>
<p>“Gee!” he muttered. “I t’ought some guy had t’rown de
building at me.”</p>
<p>“It was only little me,” said Jimmy. “Sorry if I hurt you at all.
You really want a mat for that sort of thing.”</p>
<p>The man’s hand went furtively to his pocket. Then his eye
caught sight of the revolver, which Jimmy had placed on the
table. With a sudden dash he seized it.</p>
<p>“Now den, boss!” he said, between his teeth.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_32">32</div>
<p>Jimmy extended his hand towards him and unclasped it. Six
cartridges lay in the palm.</p>
<p>“Why worry?” he said. “Sit down and let us talk of life.”</p>
<p>“It’s a fair cop, boss,” said the man resignedly.</p>
<p>“Away with melancholy,” said Jimmy. “I’m not going to call
the police. You can go whenever you like.”</p>
<p>The man stared.</p>
<p>“I mean it,” said Jimmy. “What’s the trouble? I’ve no
grievance. I wish, though, if you haven’t any important engagement,
you would stop and talk awhile first.”</p>
<p>A broad grin spread itself across the other’s face. There was
something singularly engaging about him when he grinned.</p>
<p>“Gee! If youse ain’t goin’ to call de cops, I’ll talk till de chickens
roost again.”</p>
<p>“Talking, however,” said Jimmy, “is dry work. Are you a
teetotaller?”</p>
<p>“What’s dat? Me? On your way, boss!”</p>
<p>“Then you’ll find a pretty decent whisky in that decanter. Help
yourself. I think you’ll like it.”</p>
<p>A musical gurgling, followed by a contented sigh, showed that
the statement had been tested and proved correct.</p>
<p>“Cigar?” asked Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Me fer dat,” assented his visitor.</p>
<p>“Take a handful.”</p>
<p>“I eats dem alive,” said the marauder jovially, gathering in the
spoils.</p>
<p>Jimmy crossed his legs.</p>
<p>“By the way,” he said, “let there be no secrets between us.
What’s your name? Mine is Pitt—James Willoughby Pitt.”</p>
<p>“Mullins is my monaker, boss. Spike, dey calls me.”</p>
<p>“And you make a living at this sort of thing?”</p>
<p>“Not so bad.”</p>
<p>“How did you get in here?”</p>
<p>Spike Mullins grinned.</p>
<p>“Gee! Ain’t de window open?”</p>
<p>“If it hadn’t been?”</p>
<p>“I’d a’ busted it.”</p>
<p>Jimmy eyed him fixedly.</p>
<p>“Can you use an oxyacetylene blow-pipe?” he demanded.</p>
<p>Spike was on the point of drinking. He lowered his glass and
gaped.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_33">33</div>
<p>“What’s dat?” he said.</p>
<p>“An oxyacetylene blow-pipe.”</p>
<p>“Search me,” said Spike blankly. “Dat gets past me.”</p>
<p>Jimmy’s manner grew more severe.</p>
<p>“Can you make soup?”</p>
<p>“Soup, boss?”</p>
<p>“He doesn’t know what soup is,” said Jimmy despairingly.
“My good man, I’m afraid you have missed your vocation. You
have no business to be trying to burgle. You don’t know the first
thing about the game.”</p>
<p>Spike was regarding him with furtive disquiet over his glass.
Till now the red-haired one had been very well satisfied with his
methods, but criticism was beginning to sap his nerve. He had
heard tales of masters of his craft who made use of fearsome
implements such as Jimmy had mentioned; burglars who had an
airy acquaintanceship, bordering on insolent familiarity, with the
marvels of science; men to whom the latest inventions were as
familiar as his own jemmy was to himself. Could this be one of
that select band? Jimmy began to take on a new aspect in his eyes.</p>
<p>“Spike,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Huh!”</p>
<p>“Have you a thorough knowledge of chemistry, physics——”</p>
<p>“On your way, boss!”</p>
<p>“Toxicology——”</p>
<p>“Search me!”</p>
<p>“Electricity and microscopy?”</p>
<p>“Nine, ten. Dat’s de finish. I’m down and out.”</p>
<p>Jimmy shook his head sadly.</p>
<p>“Give up burglary,” he said. “It’s not in your line. Better try
poultry-farming.”</p>
<p>Spike twiddled his glass, abashed.</p>
<p>“Now I,” said Jimmy airily, “am thinking of breaking into a
house to-night.”</p>
<p>“Gee!” exclaimed Spike, his suspicions confirmed at last. “I
t’ought youse was in de game, boss. Sure, you’re de guy dat’s onto
all de curves. I t’ought so all along.”</p>
<p>“I should like to hear,” said Jimmy amusedly, as one who
draws out an intelligent child, “how you would set about burgling
one of those up-town villas. My own work has been on a somewhat
larger scale and on the other side of the Atlantic.”</p>
<p>“De odder side?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_34">34</div>
<p>“I have done as much in London as anywhere else,” said
Jimmy. “A great town, London. Full of opportunities for the
fine worker. Did you hear of the cracking of the new Asiatic Bank
in Lombard Street?”</p>
<p>“No, boss,” whispered Spike. “Was dat you?”</p>
<p>“The police would like an answer to the same question,” he
said self-consciously. “Perhaps you heard nothing of the disappearance
of the Duchess of Havent’s diamonds?”</p>
<p>“Was dat——?”</p>
<p>“The thief,” said Jimmy, flicking a speck of dust from his
coat-sleeve, “was discovered to have used an oxyacetylene
blow-pipe.”</p>
<p>The rapturous intake of Spike’s breath was the only sound that
broke the silence. Through the smoke his eyes could be seen
slowly widening.</p>
<p>“But about this villa,” said Jimmy. “I am always interested
even in the humblest sides of the profession. Now, tell me, supposing
you were going to break into a villa, what time of night would
you do it?”</p>
<p>“I always t’inks it’s best either late like dis or when de folks is in
at supper,” said Spike respectfully.</p>
<p>Jimmy smiled a faint, patronizing smile, and nodded.</p>
<p>“Well, and what would you do?”</p>
<p>“I’d rubber around some to see isn’t dere a window open
somewheres,” said Spike diffidently.</p>
<p>“And if there wasn’t?”</p>
<p>“I’d climb up de porch and into one of de bedrooms,” said
Spike, almost blushing. He felt like a boy reading his first
attempts at original poetry to an established critic. What would
this master cracksman, this polished wielder of the oxyacetylene
blow-pipe, this expert in toxicology, microscopy, and physics,
think of his callow outpourings?</p>
<p>“How would you get into the bedroom?”</p>
<p>Spike hung his head.</p>
<p>“Bust de catch wit me jemmy,” he whispered shamefacedly.</p>
<p>“Burst the catch with your jemmy?”</p>
<p>“It’s de only way I ever learned,” pleaded Spike.</p>
<p>The expert was silent. He seemed to be thinking. The other
watched his face humbly.</p>
<p>“How would youse do it, boss?” he ventured timidly, at last.</p>
<p>“Eh?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_35">35</div>
<p>“How would youse do it?”</p>
<p>“Why, I’m not sure,” said the master graciously, “whether
your way might not do in a case like that. It’s crude, of course,
but with a few changes it would do.”</p>
<p>“Gee, boss! Is dat right?” queried the astonished disciple.</p>
<p>“It would do,” said the master, frowning thoughtfully. “It
would do quite well—quite well.”</p>
<p>Spike drew a deep breath of joy and astonishment. That his
methods should meet with approval from such a mind!</p>
<p>“Gee!” he whispered. As who should say, “I am Napoleon.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_36">36</div>
<h2 id="c6"><span class="small">★ 6 ★</span>
<br /><i>An Exhibition Performance</i></h2>
<p>Cold reason may disapprove of wagers, but without a doubt
there is something joyous and lovable in the type of mind
which rushes at the least provocation into the making of them,
something smacking of the spacious days of the Regency. Nowadays
the spirit seems to have deserted England. When Mr. Lloyd
George became Premier of Great Britain no earnest forms were
to be observed rolling pea-nuts along the Strand with a toothpick.
When Mr. George is dethroned it is improbable that any Briton
will allow his beard to remain unshaved until his pet party returns
to office. It is in the United States that the wager has found a
home. It is characteristic of some minds to dash into a wager
with the fearlessness of a soldier in a forlorn hope, and, once in, to
regard it almost as a sacred trust. Some men never grow up out of
the schoolboy spirit of “daring”.</p>
<p>To this class Jimmy Pitt belonged. He was of the same type as
the man in the comic opera who proposed to the lady because
somebody bet him he wouldn’t. There had never been a time
when a challenge, a “dare”, had not acted as a spur to him. In his
newspaper days life had been one long series of challenges. They
had been the essence of the business. A story had not been worth
getting unless the getting were difficult.</p>
<p>With the conclusion of his newspaper life came a certain
flatness into the scheme of things. There were times, many times,
when Jimmy was bored. He hungered for excitement, and life
appeared to have so little to offer. The path of the rich man was
so smooth, and it seemed to lead nowhere. This task of burgling
a house was like an unexpected treat to a child. With an intensity
of purpose which should have touched his sense of humour, but
which, as a matter of fact, did not appeal to him as ludicrous in
any way, he addressed himself to the work. The truth was that
Jimmy was one of those men who are charged to the brim with
force. Somehow the force had to find an outlet. If he had undertaken
<span class="pb" id="Page_37">37</span>
to collect birds’ eggs, he would have set about it with the
same tense energy.</p>
<p>Spike was sitting on the edge of his chair, dazed but happy, his
head still buzzing from the unhoped-for praise. Jimmy looked
at his watch. It was nearly three o’clock. A sudden idea struck
him. The gods had provided gifts—why not take them?</p>
<p>“Spike!”</p>
<p>“Huh?”</p>
<p>“Would you care to come and crack a crib with me now?”</p>
<p>“Gee, boss!”</p>
<p>“Would you?”</p>
<p>“Surest t’ing you know, boss.”</p>
<p>“Or, rather,” proceeded Jimmy, “would you care to crack a
crib while I come along with you? Strictly speaking, I am here on
vacation, but a trifle like this isn’t real work. It’s this way,” he
explained. “I’ve taken a fancy to you, Spike, and I don’t like to
see you wasting your time on coarse work. You have the root of
the matter in you, and with a little coaching I could put a polish
on you. I wouldn’t do this for every one, but I hate to see a man
bungling who might do better! I want to see you at work. Come
right along and we’ll go up-town and you shall start in. Don’t get
nervous. Just work as you would if I were not there. I shall not
expect too much. Rome was not built in a day. When we are
through I will criticise a few of your mistakes. How does that suit
you?”</p>
<p>“Gee, boss! Great! And say, I knows just de places. A friend of
mine puts me wise to it. Leastways, I didn’t know he was me
friend, but I falls for him now. It’s a——”</p>
<p>“Very well, then. One moment, though.”</p>
<p>He went to the telephone. Before he had left New York on his
travels, Arthur Mifflin had been living at an hotel near Washington
Square. It was probable that he was still there. He called up
the number. The night-clerk was an old acquaintance of his.</p>
<p>“Hullo, Dixon!” said Jimmy, “is that you? I’m Pitt. Pitt. Yes.
I’m back. How did you guess? Yes, very pleasant, thanks. Has
Mr. Mifflin come in yet? Gone to bed? Never mind, ring him up,
will you? Thanks.” Presently the sleepy and outraged voice of
Mr. Mifflin spoke at the other end of the line.</p>
<p>“What’s wrong? Who the devil’s that?”</p>
<p>“My dear Arthur! Where you pick up such expressions I can’t
think. Not from me.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_38">38</div>
<p>“Is that you, Jimmy? What in the name of——”</p>
<p>“Heavens! what are you kicking about? The night’s yet young.
Arthur, touching that little arrangement we made—cracking that
crib, you know. Are you listening? Have you any objection to my
taking an assistant along with me? I don’t want to do anything
contrary to our agreement, but there’s a young fellow here who’s
anxious that I should let him come along and pick up a few hints.
He’s a professional all right. Not in our class, of course, but quite
a fair rough workman. He——Arthur! Arthur! These are harsh
words! Then am I to understand you have no objection? Very
well. Only don’t say later on that I didn’t play fair. Good night.”</p>
<p>He hung up the receiver and turned to Spike.</p>
<p>“Ready?”</p>
<p>“Ain’t youse goin’ to put on your gum-shoes, boss?”</p>
<p>Jimmy frowned reflectively, as if there was something in what
this novice suggested. He went into the bedroom, and returned
wearing a pair of thin patent leather shoes.</p>
<p>Spike coughed tentatively.</p>
<p>“Won’t youse need your gun?” he hazarded.</p>
<p>Jimmy gave a short laugh.</p>
<p>“I work with my brains, not guns,” he said. “Let us be going.”</p>
<p>There was a taxi-cab near by, as there always is in New York.
Jimmy pushed Spike in.</p>
<p>The luxury of riding in a taxi-cab kept Spike dumb for several
miles. At One Hundred and Fiftieth Street Jimmy stopped the
cab and paid the driver, who took the money with that magnificently
aloof air which characterizes the taxi-chauffeur. A lesser man
might have displayed some curiosity about the ill-matched pair.
The chauffeur, having lit a cigarette, drove off without any display
of interest whatsoever. It might have been part of his ordinary
duties to drive gentlemen in evening clothes and shock-headed
youths in parti-coloured sweaters about the city at three o’clock
in the morning.</p>
<p>“We will now,” said Jimmy, “stroll on and prospect. It might
excite comment if we drove up to the door. It is up to you, Spike.
Lead me to this house you mentioned.”</p>
<p>They walked on, striking eastward out of Broadway. It caused
Jimmy some surprise to find that much-enduring thoroughfare
extended as far as this. It had never occurred to him before to
ascertain what Broadway did with itself beyond Times Square.
He had spent much of his time abroad, in cities where a street
<span class="pb" id="Page_39">39</span>
changes its name every hundred yards or so without any apparent
reason.</p>
<p>It was darker now that they had moved from the centre of
things, but it was still far too light for Jimmy’s tastes. He was
content, however, to leave matters entirely in his companion’s
charge. Spike probably had his method for evading publicity on
these occasions.</p>
<p>Spike, meanwhile, plodded steadily onwards. Block after block
he passed, until finally the houses began to be more scattered.</p>
<p>At length he stopped outside a fair-sized detached house. As he
did so a single rain-drop descended with a splash on the nape of
Jimmy’s neck. In another moment the shower had begun—jerkily
at first, then, as if warming to its work, with the quiet
persistence of a shower-bath.</p>
<p>“Dis is de place, boss,” said Spike.</p>
<p>From a burglar’s point of view it was an admirable house. It
had no porch, but there was a handy window only a few feet
from the ground. Spike pulled from his pocket a small bottle and
a piece of coarse paper.</p>
<p>“What’s that?” inquired Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Treacle, boss,” said Spike deferentially.</p>
<p>He poured the contents of the bottle on to the paper, which he
pressed firmly against the window-pane. Then, drawing out a
short steel instrument, he gave the paper a sharp tap. The glass
beneath broke, though the sound was almost inaudible. The
paper came away with the glass attached, then Spike inserting his
hand in the opening, shot back the catch and softly pushed up
the window.</p>
<p>“Elementary,” said Jimmy; “elementary, but quite neat.”</p>
<p>There was now a shutter to be negotiated. This took longer,
but in the end Spike’s persuasive methods prevailed.</p>
<p>Jimmy became quite cordial.</p>
<p>“You have been well grounded, Spike,” he said. “And, after
all, that is half the battle. The advice I give to every novice is,
‘Learn to walk before you try to run.’ Master the A B C of the
craft first. With a little careful coaching you will do. Just so.
Pop in.”</p>
<p>Spike climbed cautiously over the sill, followed by Jimmy. The
latter struck a match and found the electric light switch. They were
in a parlour furnished and decorated with surprising taste.
Jimmy had expected the usual hideousness, but here everything,
<span class="pb" id="Page_40">40</span>
from the wall-paper to the smallest ornaments, was wonderfully
well selected.</p>
<p>Business, however, was business. This was no time to stand
admiring artistic efforts in room-furnishing. There was that big
J to be carved on the front door. If ’twere done, then ’twere well
’twere done quickly.</p>
<p>He was just moving to the door, when from some distant part
of the house came the bark of a dog. Another joined in. The solo
became a duet. The air was filled with their clamour.</p>
<p>“Gee!” cried Spike.</p>
<p>The remark seemed more or less to sum up the situation.</p>
<p>“’Tis sweet,” says Byron, “to hear the watch-dog’s honest
bark.” Jimmy and Spike found two watch-dogs’ honest barks
cloying. Spike intimated this by making a feverish dash for the
open window. Unfortunately for the success of this manoeuvre,
the floor of the room was covered, not with a carpet, but with
tastefully scattered rugs, and underneath these rugs it was very
highly polished. Spike, treading on one of these islands, was
instantly undone. No power of will or muscle can save a man in
such a case. Spike skidded. His feet flew from under him. There
was a momentary flash of red hair, as of a passing meteor. The
next moment he had fallen on his back with a thud which shook
the house, and probably the rest of Manhattan Island as well.
Even in that crisis the thought flashed across Jimmy’s mind that
this was not Spike’s lucky night.</p>
<p>Upstairs the efforts of the canine choir had begun to resemble
the “A che la morte” duet in <i>Il Trovatore</i>. Particularly good work
was being done by the baritone dog.</p>
<p>Spike sat up, groaning. Equipped though he was by nature
with a skull of the purest and most solid ivory, the fall had
disconcerted him. His eyes, like those of Shakespeare’s poet,
rolling a fine frenzy, did glance from heaven to earth, from earth
to heaven. He passed his fingers tenderly through his vermilion
hair.</p>
<p>Heavy footsteps were descending the stairs. In the distance the
soprano dog had reached A in alto and was holding it, while his
fellow-artiste executed runs in the lower register.</p>
<p>“Get up!” hissed Jimmy. “There’s somebody coming! Get up,
you idiot, can’t you?”</p>
<p>It was characteristic of Jimmy that it never even occurred to
him to desert the fallen one and depart alone. There was once an
<span class="pb" id="Page_41">41</span>
Italian convict who, in planning a jail-breaking, assigned to his
brother felons such duties as shooting the governor and strangling
the warders, reserving for himself the task of making “da gran’
escape”. Jimmy was the exact opposite of this strategist. Spike
was his brother-in-arms. He would as soon have thought of
deserting him as a sea-captain would have abandoned his ship.</p>
<p>Consequently, as Spike, despite all exhortations, continued to
remain on the floor, rubbing his head and uttering “Gee!” at
intervals in a melancholy voice, Jimmy resigned himself to fate,
and stood where he was, waiting for the door to open.</p>
<p>It opened the next moment as if a cyclone had been behind it.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_42">42</div>
<h2 id="c7"><span class="small">★ 7 ★</span>
<br /><i>Getting Acquainted</i></h2>
<p>A cyclone entering the room is apt to alter the position of
things. This one shifted a footstool, a small chair, a rug, and
Spike. The chair struck by a massive boot, whirled against the
wall. The footstool rolled away. The rug crumpled up and slid.
Spike, with a yell, leaped to his feet, slipped again, fell, and finally
compromised on an all-fours position, in which attitude he remained,
blinking.</p>
<p>While these stirring acts were in progress there was the sound
of a door opening upstairs, followed by a scuttering of feet and an
appalling increase in the canine contribution to the current noises.
The duet had now taken on quite a Wagnerian effect.</p>
<p>There raced into the room first a white bull-terrier, he of the
soprano voice, and—a bad second—his fellow-artiste, the baritone,
a massive bulldog, bearing a striking resemblance to the big man
with the revolver.</p>
<p>And then, in theatrical parlance, the entire company “held the
picture”. Up-stage, with his hand still on the door, stood the
large householder; down-stage Jimmy. Centre, Spike and the
bulldog, their noses, a couple of inches apart, inspected each
other with mutual disfavour. On the extreme O.P. side the bull-terrier,
who had fallen foul of a wickerwork table, was crouching
with extended tongue and rolling eyes, waiting for the next
move.</p>
<p>The householder looked at Jimmy. Jimmy looked at the householder.
Spike and the bulldog looked at each other. The bull-terrier
distributed his gaze impartially around the company.</p>
<p>“A typical scene of quiet American home-life,” murmured
Jimmy.</p>
<p>The man with the pistol glowered.</p>
<p>“Hands up, you devils!” he roared, pointing a mammoth
revolver.</p>
<p>The two marauders humoured his whim.</p>
<p>“Let me explain,” said Jimmy pacifically, shuffling warily
<span class="pb" id="Page_43">43</span>
round in order to face the bull-terrier, who was now strolling in
his direction with an ill-assumed carelessness.</p>
<p>“Keep still, you blackguard!”</p>
<p>Jimmy kept still. The bull-terrier, with the same abstracted air,
was beginning a casual inspection of his right trouser-leg.</p>
<p>Relations between Spike and the bulldog, meanwhile, had
become more strained. The sudden flinging up of the former’s
arms had had the worst effect on the animal’s nerves. Spike, the
croucher on all-fours, he might have tolerated; but Spike, the
semaphore, inspired him with thoughts of battle. He was growling
in a moody, reflective manner. His eye was full of purpose.</p>
<p>It was probably this that caused Spike to look at the householder.
Till then he had been too busy to gaze elsewhere, but
now the bulldog’s eye had become so unpleasant that he cast a
pathetic glance up at the man by the door.</p>
<p>“Gee!” he cried, as he did so. “It’s de boss! Say, boss, call off
de dawg. It’s sure goin’ to nip de old head of me.”</p>
<p>The other lowered his revolver in surprise.</p>
<p>“So it’s you, is it, you limb of Satan?” he remarked. “I thought
I had seen that damned red head of yours before. What are you
doing in my house?”</p>
<p>Spike uttered a moan of self-pity.</p>
<p>“Boss,” he cried, “I’ve had a raw deal. Dere’s bin coarse work
goin’ on. Listen! It’s dis way. Honest, I didn’t know dis was
where you lived. A fat Swede—Ole Larsen his monaker is—tells
me dis house belongs to a widder-loidy what lives here all alone,
and has all kinds of silver and all dat, and she’s down Sout’
visiting, so dat de house is empty. Gee, I’m onto his curves now.
I’m wise. Listen, boss. Him and me starts a scrappin’ last week
over somet’in, and I t’inks he’s got it in bad for me, because I
puts it all over him. But t’ree days ago up he comes and says,
‘Let’s be fren’s,’ and puts me wise on dis joint. I’ll soak it to dat
Swede! Dis was what he was woikin’ for. He knows you lives here,
and he t’inks to put me in bad wit youse. It’s a raw deal, boss!”</p>
<p>The big man listened to this sad tale of Grecian gifts in silence.
Not so the bulldog, which growled ominously from start to
finish. Spike glanced nervously in its direction.</p>
<p>“De dawg,” he persisted uneasily. “Won’t you call on de
dawg, boss?”</p>
<p>The big man stooped and grasped the animal’s collar, jerking
him away.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_44">44</div>
<p>“The same treatment,” suggested Jimmy, with approval,
“would also do a world of good to this playful and affectionate
animal—unless he is a vegetarian, in which case don’t bother.”</p>
<p>The householder glowered at him.</p>
<p>“Who are you?” he demanded.</p>
<p>“My name,” began Jimmy, “is——”</p>
<p>“Say,” said Spike, “he’s a champion burglar, boss——”</p>
<p>“Eh!” he said.</p>
<p>“He’s a champion burglar from de odder side. He sure is.
From Lunnon. Gee, he’s de guy! Tell him about the bank you
opened, and de jools you swiped from de duchess, and de what-d’ye-call-it
blow-pipe.”</p>
<p>It seemed to Jimmy that Spike was showing a certain want of
tact. When you are discovered by a house-holder—with revolver—in
his parlour at half-past three in the morning, it is surely an
injudicious move to lay stress on your proficiency as a burglar.
The householder may be supposed to take it for granted. The
side of your character which should be advertised in such a crisis
is the non-burglarious. Allusion should be made to the fact that
as a child you attended Sunday-school regularly, and to what the
curate said when you took the Divinity prize. The idea should be
conveyed to the householder’s mind that, if let off with a caution,
your innate goodness of heart will lead you to reform and avoid
such scenes in future.</p>
<p>With some astonishment, therefore, Jimmy found that these
revelations, so far from prejudicing the man with the revolver
against him, had apparently told in his favour. The man behind
the gun was regarding him rather with interest than disapproval.</p>
<p>“So you’re a crook from London, are you?”</p>
<p>Jimmy did not hesitate. If being a crook from London was a
passport into citizens’ parlours in the small hours, and, more
particularly, if it carried with it also a safe-conduct out of them,
Jimmy was not the man to refuse the <i>role</i>. He bowed.</p>
<p>“Well, you’ll have to come across now you’re in New York.
Understand that. And come across good.”</p>
<p>“Sure, he will,” said Spike, charmed that the tension had been
relieved and matters placed upon a pleasant and business-like
footing. “He’ll be good. He’s next to de game, sure.”</p>
<p>“Sure,” echoed Jimmy courteously. He did not understand;
but things seemed to be taking a turn for the better, so why disturb
the harmony?</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_45">45</div>
<p>“Dis gent,” said Spike respectfully, “is boss of de cops. A
police-captain,” he corrected himself.</p>
<p>A light broke upon Jimmy’s darkness. He wondered he had not
understood before. He had not been a newspaper-man in New
York for a year without finding out something of the inner
workings of the police force. He saw now why the other’s manner
had changed.</p>
<p>“Pleased to meet you,” he said. “We must have a talk together
one of these days.”</p>
<p>“We must,” said the police-captain significantly.</p>
<p>“Of course, I don’t know your methods on this side, but
anything that’s usual——”</p>
<p>“I’ll see you at my office. Spike Mullins will show you where it
is.”</p>
<p>“Very well. You must forgive this preliminary informal call.
We came in more to shelter from the rain than anything.”</p>
<p>“You did, did you?”</p>
<p>Jimmy felt that it behoved him to stand on his dignity. The
situation demanded it.</p>
<p>“Why,” he said, with some hauteur, “in the ordinary course of
business I should hardly waste time over a small crib like——”</p>
<p>“It’s banks for his,” murmured Spike rapturously. “He eats
dem alive. And jools from duchesses.”</p>
<p>“I admit a partiality for jewels and duchesses,” said Jimmy.
“And now, as it’s a little late, perhaps we had better—— Ready,
Spike? Good night, then. Pleased to have met you.”</p>
<p>“I’ll see you at my office.”</p>
<p>“I may possibly look in. I shall be doing very little work in New
York, I fancy. I am here merely on a vacation.”</p>
<p>“If you do any work at all,” said the policeman coldly, “you’ll
look in at my office, or you’ll wish you had when it’s too late.”</p>
<p>“Of course, of course. I shouldn’t dream of omitting any
formality that may be usual. But I don’t fancy I shall break my
vacation. By the way, one little thing. Have you any objection to
my carving a ‘J’ on your front door?”</p>
<p>The policeman stared.</p>
<p>“On the inside. It won’t show. It’s just a whim of mine. If
you have no objection.”</p>
<p>“I don’t want any of your——” began the policeman.</p>
<p>“You misunderstand me. It’s only that it means paying for a
dinner. I wouldn’t for the world——”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_46">46</div>
<p>The policeman pointed to the window.</p>
<p>“Out you get,” he said abruptly. “I’ve had enough of you. And
don’t you forget to come to my office.”</p>
<p>Spike, still deeply mistrustful of the bulldog Rastus, jumped at
the invitation. He was through the window and out of sight in the
friendly darkness almost before the policeman had finished speaking.
Jimmy remained.</p>
<p>“I shall be delighted——” he had begun, when he stopped. In
the doorway was standing a girl—a girl whom he recognized. Her
startled look told him that she too had recognized him.</p>
<p>Now for the first time since he had set out from his flat that
night in Spike’s company Jimmy was conscious of a sense of the
unreality of things. It was all so exactly as it would have happened
in a dream. He had gone to sleep thinking of this girl, and
here she was. But a glance at McEachern brought him back to
earth. There was nothing of the dream-world about the police-captain.</p>
<p>The policeman, whose back was towards the door, had not
observed the addition to the company. Molly had turned the
handle quietly and her slippered feet made no sound. It was the
amazed expression on Jimmy’s face that caused him to look
towards the door.</p>
<p>“Molly!”</p>
<p>She smiled, though her face was still white. Jimmy’s evening
clothes had reassured her. She did not understand how he came
to be there, but evidently there was nothing wrong. She had
interrupted a conversation, not a conflict.</p>
<p>“I heard the noise and you going downstairs, and I sent the
dogs down to help you, father,” she said. “And then, after a
little while, I came down to see if you were all right.”</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern was perplexed. Molly’s arrival had put him in
an awkward position. To denounce him as a cracksman was
impossible. Jimmy knew too much about him. The only real fear
of the policeman’s life was that some word of his moneymaking
methods might come to his daughter’s ears.</p>
<p>Quite a brilliant idea came to him.</p>
<p>“A man broke in, my dear,” he said. “This gentleman was
passing and saw him.”</p>
<p>“Distinctly,” said Jimmy. “An ugly-looking customer!”</p>
<p>“But he slipped out of the window and got away,” concluded
the policeman.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_47">47</div>
<p>“He was very quick,” said Jimmy. “I think he may have been a
professional acrobat.”</p>
<p>“He didn’t hurt you, father?”</p>
<p>“No, no, my dear.”</p>
<p>“Perhaps I frightened him,” said Jimmy airily.</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern scowled furtively at him.</p>
<p>“We mustn’t detain you, Mr.——”</p>
<p>“Pitt,” said Jimmy. “My name is Pitt.” He turned to Molly.
“I hope you enjoyed the voyage.”</p>
<p>The policeman started.</p>
<p>“You know my daughter?”</p>
<p>“By sight only, I’m afraid. We were fellow-passengers on the
<i>Mauretania</i>. Unfortunately I was in the second cabin. I used to
see your daughter walking the deck sometimes.”</p>
<p>Molly smiled.</p>
<p>“I remember seeing you—sometimes.”</p>
<p>McEachern burst out:</p>
<p>“Then you——”</p>
<p>He stopped and looked at Molly. Molly was bending over
Rastus, tickling him under the ear.</p>
<p>“Let me show you the way out, Mr. Pitt,” said the policeman
shortly. His manner was abrupt, but when one is speaking to a
man whom one would dearly love to throw out of the window
abruptness is almost unavoidable.</p>
<p>“Perhaps I should be going,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Good night, Mr. Pitt,” said Molly.</p>
<p>“I hope we shall meet again,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“This way, Mr. Pitt,” growled McEachern, holding the door.</p>
<p>“Please don’t trouble,” said Jimmy. He went to the window,
and, flinging his leg over the sill, dropped noiselessly to the
ground.</p>
<p>He turned and put his head in at the window again.</p>
<p>“I did that rather well,” he said pleasantly. “I think I must
take up this sort of thing as a profession. Good night.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_48">48</div>
<h2 id="c8"><span class="small">★ 8 ★</span>
<br /><i>At Dreever</i></h2>
<p>In the days before the Welshman began to expend his surplus
energy in playing Rugby football he was accustomed, whenever
the monotony of his everyday life began to oppress him, to
collect a few friends and make raids across the border into
England, to the huge discomfort of the dwellers on the other side.
It was to cope with this habit that Dreever Castle, in Shropshire,
came into existence. It met a long-felt want. In time of trouble it
became a haven of refuge. From all sides people poured into it,
emerging cautiously when the marauders had disappeared. In the
whole history of the castle there is but one instance recorded of a
bandit attempting to take the place by storm, and the attack was
an emphatic failure. On receipt of a ladleful of molten lead, aimed
to a nicety by one John, the Chaplain—evidently one of those
sporting parsons—this warrior retired, done to a turn, to his
mountain fastnesses, and is never heard of again. He would
seem, however, to have passed the word round among his friends,
for subsequent raiding parties studiously avoided the castle, and a
peasant who had succeeded in crossing its threshold was for the
future considered to be “home” and out of the game.</p>
<p>Such was Dreever in the olden times. To-day the Welshman
having calmed down considerably, it had lost its militant character.
The old walls still stood, grey, menacing, and unchanged, but
they were the only link with the past. The castle was now a very
comfortable country-house, nominally ruled over by Hildebrand
Spencer Poyns de Burgh John Hannasyde Coombe-Crombie,
twelfth Earl of Dreever (“Spennie” to his relatives and intimates),
but in reality the possession of his uncle and aunt, Sir Thomas
and Lady Julia Blunt.</p>
<p>Spennie’s position was one of some embarrassment. At no
point in their history had the Dreevers been what one might call a
parsimonious family. If a chance presented itself of losing money
in a particularly wild and futile manner, the Dreever of the
period had invariably sprung at it with the vim of an energetic
<span class="pb" id="Page_49">49</span>
bloodhound. The South Sea Bubble absorbed £200,000 of good
Dreever money, and the remainder of the family fortune was
squandered to the ultimate farthing by the sportive gentleman
who had held the title in the days of the Regency, when Watier’s
and the Cocoa Tree were in their prime, and fortunes had a habit
of disappearing in a single evening. When Spennie became Earl of
Dreever there was about eighteenpence in the old oak chest.</p>
<p>This is the point at which Sir Thomas Blunt breaks into
Dreever history. Sir Thomas was a small, pink, fussy, obstinate
man, with a genius for trade and the ambition of a Napoleon,
probably one of the finest and most complete specimens of the
came-over-Waterloo-Bridge-with-half-a-crown-in-my-pocket-and-now-look-at-me
class of millionaire in existence. He had
started almost literally with nothing. By carefully excluding from
his mind every thought except that of making money, he had risen
in the world with a gruesome persistence which nothing could
check. At the age of fifty-one he was chairman of Blunt’s Stores,
Ltd., a member of Parliament, silent as a wax figure, but a great
comfort to the party by virtue of liberal contributions to its
funds, and a knight. This was good, but he aimed still higher;
and, meeting Spennie’s aunt, Lady Julia Coombe-Crombie, just
at the moment when, financially, the Dreevers were at their
lowest ebb, he had effected a very satisfactory deal by marrying
her, thereby becoming as one might say, the chairman of Dreever,
Ltd. Until Spennie should marry money, an act on which his
chairman vehemently insisted, Sir Thomas held the purse, and,
except in minor matters ordered by his wife, of whom he stood in
uneasy awe, had things entirely his own way.</p>
<p>One afternoon, a year after the events recorded in the preceding
chapter, he was in his private room, looking out of the window.
The view from that window was very beautiful. The castle stood
on a hill, the lower portion of which, between the house and the
lake, had been cut into broad terraces. The lake itself, with its
island with the little boathouse in the centre, was a glimpse of
Fairyland.</p>
<p>But it was not altogether the beauty of the view that had drawn
Sir Thomas to the window. He was looking at it more because the
position enabled him to avoid his wife’s eye; and, just at the
moment, he was rather anxious to avoid his wife’s eye. A somewhat
stormy board meeting was in progress, and Lady Julia, who
constituted the board of directors, had been heckling the chairman.
<span class="pb" id="Page_50">50</span>
The point under discussion was one of etiquette, and in
matters of etiquette Sir Thomas felt himself at a disadvantage.</p>
<p>“I tell you, my dear,” he said to the window, “I am not easy
in my mind.”</p>
<p>“Nonsense!” snapped Lady Julia. “Absurd! Ridiculous!”</p>
<p>Lady Julia Blunt, when conversing, resembled a Maxim gun
more than anything else.</p>
<p>“But your diamonds, my dear?”</p>
<p>“I can take care of them.”</p>
<p>“But why should you have the trouble? Now, if we——”</p>
<p>“It’s no trouble.”</p>
<p>“When we were married there was a detective——”</p>
<p>“Don’t be childish, Thomas. Detectives at weddings are quite
customary.”</p>
<p>“But——”</p>
<p>“Bah——”</p>
<p>“I paid twenty thousand pounds for that rope of pearls,” said
Sir Thomas obstinately. Switch things on to a cash basis and he
was more himself.</p>
<p>“May I ask if you suspect any of our guests of being criminals?”
inquired Lady Julia, frostily.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas looked out of the window. At the moment the
sternest censor could have found nothing to cavil at in the movements
of such of the house-party as were in sight. Some were
playing tennis, some clock golf, and others were smoking.</p>
<p>“Why not,” he began.</p>
<p>“Of course. Absurd! Quite absurd!”</p>
<p>“But the servants. We have engaged a number of new servants
lately.”</p>
<p>“With excellent recommendations.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas was on the point of suggesting that the recommendations
might be forged, but his courage failed him. Julia
was sometimes so abrupt in these little discussions. She did not
enter into his point of view. He was always a trifle inclined to treat
the castle as a branch of Blunt’s Stores. As proprietor of the stores
he had made a point of suspecting everybody, and the results had
been excellent. In Blunt’s Stores you could hardly move in any
direction without bumping into a gentlemanly detective efficiently
disguised. For the life of him Sir Thomas could not see why the
same principle should not obtain at Dreever. Guests at a country
house do not as a rule steal their host’s possessions, but then it is
<span class="pb" id="Page_51">51</span>
only an occasional customer at a store who goes in for shop
lifting. It was the principle of the thing, he thought. Be prepared
against every emergency. With Sir Thomas Blunt suspiciousness
was almost a mania. He was forced to admit that the chances were
against any of his guests exhibiting larcenous tendencies, but, as
for the servants, he thoroughly mistrusted them all except
Saunders, the butler. It had seemed to him the merest prudence
that a detective from a private inquiry agency should be installed
at the castle while the house was full. Somewhat rashly he had
mentioned this to his wife, and Lady Julia’s critique of the
scheme had been terse and unflattering.</p>
<p>“I suppose,” said Lady Julia sarcastically, “you will jump to the
conclusion that this man whom Spennie is bringing down with
him to-day is a criminal of some sort?”</p>
<p>“Eh? Is Spennie bringing a friend?”</p>
<p>There was not a great deal of enthusiasm in Sir Thomas’s
voice. His nephew was not a young man whom he respected very
highly. Spennie regarded his uncle with nervous apprehension,
as one who would deal with his shortcomings with vigour and
severity. Sir Thomas, for his part, looked on Spennie as a youth
who would get into mischief unless he had an eye fixed on him.
So he proceeded to fix that eye.</p>
<p>“I had a wire from him just now.”</p>
<p>“Who is his friend?”</p>
<p>“He doesn’t say. He just says he’s a man he met in London.”</p>
<p>“H’m!”</p>
<p>“And what does ‘H’m!’ mean?” demanded Lady Julia.</p>
<p>“A man can pick up strange people in London,” said Sir
Thomas judicially.</p>
<p>“Nonsense.”</p>
<p>“Just as you say, my dear.”</p>
<p>Lady Julia rose.</p>
<p>“As for what you suggest about the detective, it is, of course,
absolutely absurd.”</p>
<p>“Quite so, my dear.”</p>
<p>“You mustn’t think of it.”</p>
<p>“Just as you say, my dear.”</p>
<p>Lady Julia left the room.</p>
<p>What followed may afford some slight clue to the secret of Sir
Thomas Blunt’s rise in the world. It certainly suggests singleness
of purpose, which is one of the essentials of success.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_52">52</div>
<p>No sooner had the door closed behind Lady Julia than he
went to his writing-table, took pen and paper, and wrote the
following letter:</p>
<p>“To the Manager, Wragge’s Detective Agency, Holborn Bars,
London, E.C.</p>
<p>“Sir,—With reference to my last of the 28th ult., I should be
glad if you would send down immediately one of your best men.
Am making arrangements to receive him. Kindly instruct him to
present himself at Dreever Castle as applicant for position of
valet to myself. I will see and engage him on his arrival, and
further instruct him in his duties.—Yours faithfully, <span class="sc">Thos.
Blunt</span>.</p>
<p>“P.S.—I shall expect him to-morrow evening. There is a good
train leaving Paddington at 2.15.”</p>
<p>He read it over and put in a couple of commas, then placed it in
an envelope, and lit a cigar with the air of one who can be checked—yes,
but vanquished, never.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_53">53</div>
<h2 id="c9"><span class="small">★ 9 ★</span>
<br /><i>A New Friend and an Old One</i></h2>
<p>On the night of the day on which Sir Thomas Blunt wrote his
letter to Wragge’s, Jimmy Pitt was supping at the Savoy.</p>
<p>If you have the money and the clothes, and do not object to
being turned out into the night just as you are beginning to enjoy
yourself, there are few things pleasanter than supper at the Savoy
Hotel, London. But as Jimmy sat there, eyeing the multitude
through the smoke of his cigarette, he felt, despite all the brightness
and glitter, that this was a flat world and that he was very
much alone in it.</p>
<p>A little over a year had passed since the merry evening at
Police-Captain McEachern’s. During that time he had covered a
good deal of new ground. His restlessness had reasserted itself.
Somebody had mentioned Morocco in his hearing, and a fortnight
later he was in Fez.</p>
<p>Of the principals in that night’s drama he had seen nothing
more. It was only when walking home on air, rejoicing over the
strange chance which had led to his finding and having speech
with the lady of the <i>Mauretania</i>—he had reached Fifty-Ninth
Street—that he realised that he had also lost her. It suddenly
came home to him that not only did he not know her address,
but was also ignorant of her name. Spike had called the man with
the revolver “boss” throughout—only that and nothing more.
Except that he was a police captain, Jimmy knew as little about
him as he had done before their meeting. And Spike, who held the
key to the mystery, had vanished. His acquaintances of that night
had passed out of his life like figures in a waking dream. As far as
the big man with the pistol was concerned, this did not distress
him. He had only known that massive person for about a quarter
of an hour, but to his thinking that was ample. Spike he would
have liked to have met again, but he bore the separation with
fortitude. There remained the girl of the ship, and she had
haunted him with unfailing persistence during every one of the
three hundred and eighty-four days which had passed since their
meeting.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_54">54</div>
<p>It was the thought of her that had made New York seem
cramped. For weeks he had patrolled the more likely streets, the
Park, and Riverside Drive in the hope of meeting her. He had
gone to the theatres and restaurants, but with no success. Sometimes
he had wandered through the Bowery on the chance of
meeting Spike. He had seen red heads in profusion, but none
that belonged to his young disciple in the art of burglary. In the
end he had wearied of the search, and, to the disgust of Arthur
Mifflin and his other friends of the Strollers’, had gone out again
on his wanderings. He was greatly missed, especially by that large
section of his circle which was in a perpetual state of wanting a
little to see it through till Saturday. For years Jimmy had been to
these unfortunates a human bank on which they could draw at
will. It offended them that one of those rare natures which are
always good for two dollars at any hour of the day should be
allowed to waste itself on places like Morocco and Spain—especially
Morocco, where, by all accounts, there were brigands
with almost a New York sense of touch.</p>
<p>They argued earnestly with Jimmy. They spoke of Raisuli and
Kaid Maclean. But Jimmy was not to be stopped. The gadfly was
vexing him, and he had to move.</p>
<p>For a year he had wandered, realising every day the truth of
Horace’s philosophy for those who travel—that a man cannot
change his feelings with his climate, until finally he had found
himself, as every wanderer does, at Charing Cross.</p>
<p>At this point he had tried to rally. This running away, he told
himself, was futile. He would stand still and fight the fever in him.</p>
<p>He had been fighting it now for a matter of two weeks, and
already he was contemplating retreat. A man at lunch had been
talking about Japan——</p>
<p>Watching the crowd, Jimmy had found his attention attracted
chiefly by a party of three a few tables away. The party consisted
of a girl, rather pretty; a lady of middle-age and stately demeanour,
plainly her mother; and a light-haired, weedy young man in the
twenties. It had been the almost incessant prattle of this youth
and the peculiarly high-pitched, gurgling laugh which shot from
him at short intervals which had drawn Jimmy’s notice upon
them. And it was the curious cessation of both prattle and laugh
which now made him look again in their direction.</p>
<p>The young man faced Jimmy; and Jimmy, looking at him,
could see that all was not well. He was pale. He talked at random.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_55">55</div>
<p>Jimmy caught his eye. There was a hunted look in it.</p>
<p>Given the time and the place, there were only two things which
could have caused that look. Either the light-haired young man
had seen a ghost, or he had suddenly realised that he had not
enough money to pay the bill.</p>
<p>Jimmy’s heart went out to the sufferer. He took a card from his
case, scribbled the words, “Can I help?” on it, and gave it to a
waiter to take to the young man, who was now in a state bordering
on collapse.</p>
<p>The next moment the light-haired one was at his table, talking
in a feverish whisper.</p>
<p>“I say,” he said, “it’s frightfully good of you, old chap; it’s
frightfully awkward. I’ve come out with too little money. I
hardly like to——. You’ve never seen me before——”</p>
<p>“Don’t rub in my misfortunes,” pleaded Jimmy. “It wasn’t my
fault.”</p>
<p>He placed a £5 note on the table.</p>
<p>“Say when,” he said, producing another.</p>
<p>“I say, thanks fearfully,” the young man said. “I don’t know
what I’d have done.” He grabbed at the note. “I’ll let you have it
back to-morrow. Here’s my card. Is your address on your card?
I can’t remember. Oh, by Jove, I’ve got it in my hand all the time.”
The gurgling laugh came into action again, freshened and
strengthened by its rest. “Savoy Mansions, eh? I’ll come round
to-morrow. Thanks frightfully again, old chap. I don’t know what
I should have done.”</p>
<p>“It’s been a treat,” said Jimmy deprecatingly.</p>
<p>The young man flitted back to his table, bearing the spoil.
Jimmy looked at the card he had left. “Lord Dreever,” it read,
and in the corner the name of a well-known club. The name
Dreever was familiar to Jimmy. Every one knew of Dreever
Castle, partly because it was one of the oldest houses in England,
but principally because for centuries it had been advertised by a
particularly gruesome ghost-story. Every one had heard of the
secret of Dreever, which was known only to the Earl and the
family lawyer, and confided to the heir at midnight on his twenty-first
birthday. Jimmy had come across the story in corners of the
papers all over the States, from New York to Onehorseville,
Iowa. He looked with interest at the light-haired young man—the
latest depository of the awful secret. It was popularly supposed
that the heir, after hearing it, never smiled again: but it did
<span class="pb" id="Page_56">56</span>
not seem to have affected the present Lord Dreever to any great
extent. His gurgling laugh was drowning the orchestra. Probably,
Jimmy thought, when the family lawyer had told the light-haired
young man the secret, the latter’s comment had been,
“No, really? By Jove, I say, you know!”</p>
<p>Jimmy paid his bill and got up to go.</p>
<p>It was a perfect summer night—too perfect for bed. Jimmy
strolled on to the Embankment, and stood leaning over the
balustrade, looking across the river at the vague, mysterious mass
of buildings on the Surrey side.</p>
<p>He must have been standing there for some time, his thoughts
far away, when a voice spoke at his elbow.</p>
<p>“I say. Excuse me, have you—Halloa!”</p>
<p>It was his light-haired lordship of Dreever.</p>
<p>“I say, by Jove! Why, we’re always meeting!”</p>
<p>A tramp on the bench close by stirred uneasily in his sleep as
the gurgling laughter ripped the air.</p>
<p>“Been looking at the water?” inquired Lord Dreever. “I have.
I often do. Don’t you think it sort of makes a chap feel—oh, you
know. Sort of—I don’t know how to put it.”</p>
<p>“Mushy?” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“I was going to say poetical. Suppose there’s a girl——”</p>
<p>He paused and looked down at the water. Jimmy was with him
there. There was a girl.</p>
<p>“I saw my party off in a taxi,” continued Lord Dreever, “and
came down here for a smoke. Only I hadn’t a match. Have you?”</p>
<p>Jimmy handed over his match-box. Lord Dreever lit a cigar,
and fixed his gaze once more on the river.</p>
<p>“Ripping it looks,” he said.</p>
<p>Jimmy nodded.</p>
<p>“Funny thing,” said Lord Dreever. “In the daytime the water
here looks all muddy and beastly. Damn depressing, I call it.
But at night——” He paused. “I say,” he went on, after a
moment, “did you see the girl I was with at the Savoy?”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“She’s a ripper,” said Lord Dreever devoutly.</p>
<p>On the Thames Embankment, in the small hours of a summer
morning, there is no such thing as a stranger. The man you talk
with is a friend, and if he will listen—as, by the etiquette of the
place, he must—you may pour out your heart to him without
restraint. It is expected of you.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_57">57</div>
<p>“I’m fearfully in love with her,” said his lordship.</p>
<p>“She looked a charming girl,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>They examined the water in silence. From somewhere out in
the night came the sound of oars, where the police-boat moved
on its patrol.</p>
<p>“Does she make you want to go to Japan?” asked Jimmy
suddenly.</p>
<p>“Eh?” said Lord Dreever, startled. “Japan?”</p>
<p>Jimmy adroitly abandoned the position of confidant and
seized that of confider.</p>
<p>“I met a girl a year ago. Only really met her once, and even
then—oh, well. Anyway, it’s made me so restless that I haven’t
been able to stay in one place for more than a month on end. I
tried Morocco, and had to quit. I tried Spain, and that wasn’t
any good either. The other day I heard a fellow say that Japan
was a pretty interesting sort of country. I was wondering whether
I wouldn’t give it a trial.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever regarded this travelled man with interest.</p>
<p>“It beats me,” he said wonderingly. “What do you want to leg
it about the world like that for? What’s the trouble? Why don’t
you stay where the girl is?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know where she is.”</p>
<p>“Don’t know?”</p>
<p>“She disappeared.”</p>
<p>“Where did you see her last?” asked his lordship, as if Molly
were a mislaid penknife.</p>
<p>“New York.”</p>
<p>“But how do you mean, disappeared? Don’t you know her
address?”</p>
<p>“I don’t even know her name.”</p>
<p>“But dash it all, I say, I mean! Have you ever spoken to her?”</p>
<p>“Only once. It’s rather a complicated story. At any rate, she’s
gone.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever said that it was a rum business. Jimmy conceded
the point.</p>
<p>“Seems to me,” said his lordship, “we’re both in the cart.”</p>
<p>“What’s your trouble?”</p>
<p>“Oh, well, it’s only that I want to marry one girl, and my
uncle’s dead set on my marrying another.”</p>
<p>“Are you afraid of hurting your uncle’s feelings?”</p>
<p>“It’s not so much hurting his feelings. It’s—oh, well, it’s too
<span class="pb" id="Page_58">58</span>
long to tell now. I think I’ll be getting home. I’m staying at our
place in Eaton Square.”</p>
<p>“How are you going? If you’ll walk I’ll come some of the way
with you.”</p>
<p>“Right you are. Let’s be pushing along, shall we?”</p>
<p>They turned up into the Strand, and through Trafalgar Square
into Piccadilly. Piccadilly has a restful aspect in the small hours.
Some men were cleaning the road with water from a long hose.
The swishing of the torrent on the parched wood was musical.</p>
<p>Just beyond the gate of Hyde Park, to the right of the road,
stands a cabman’s shelter. Conversation and emotion had made
Lord Dreever thirsty. He suggested coffee as a suitable conclusion
to the night’s revels.</p>
<p>“I often go in here when I’m up in town,” he said. “The
cabbies don’t mind. They’re sportsmen.”</p>
<p>The shelter was nearly full when they opened the door. It was
very warm inside. A cabman gets so much fresh air in the exercise
of his professional duties that he is apt to avoid it in private life.
The air was heavy with conflicting scents. Fried onions seemed
to be having the best of the struggle for the moment, though plug
tobacco competed gallantly. A keenly analytical nose might also
have detected the presence of steak and coffee.</p>
<p>A dispute seemed to be in progress as they entered.</p>
<p>“You don’t wish you was in Russher,” said a voice.</p>
<p>“Yus, I do wish I was in Russher,” retorted a shrivelled
mummy of a cabman who was blowing patiently at a saucerful of
coffee.</p>
<p>“Why do you wish you was in Russher?” asked the interlocutor,
introducing a Massa Bones and Massa Johnsing touch into the
dialogue.</p>
<p>“Because you can wade over yer knees in bla-a-ad there,” said
the mummy.</p>
<p>“In wot?”</p>
<p>“In bla-a-ad—ruddy bla-a-ad. That’s why I wish I wos in
Russher.”</p>
<p>“Cheery cove that,” said Lord Dreever. “I say, can you give
us some coffee?”</p>
<p>“I might try Russia after Japan,” said Jimmy meditatively.</p>
<p>The lethal liquid was brought. Conversation began again.
Other experts gave their views on the internal affairs of Russia.
Jimmy would have enjoyed it more if he had been less sleepy. His
<span class="pb" id="Page_59">59</span>
back was wedged comfortably against the wall of the shelter, and
the heat of the room stole into his brain. The voices of the disputants
grew fainter and fainter.</p>
<p>He had almost dozed off when a new voice cut through the
murmur and woke him. It was a voice he knew, and the accent
was a familiar accent.</p>
<p>“Gents, excuse me.”</p>
<p>He looked up. The mists of sleep shredded away. A ragged
youth with a crop of fiery red hair was standing in the doorway,
regarding the occupants of the shelter with a grin, half whimsical,
half defiant.</p>
<p>Jimmy recognized him. It was Spike Mullins.</p>
<p>“Excuse me,” said Spike Mullins, “is dere any gent in dis
bunch of professional beauts wants to give a poor orphan dat
suffers from a painful toist something to drink? Gents is
courteously requested not to speak all in a crowd.”</p>
<p>“Shet that blanky door,” said the mummy cabman sourly.</p>
<p>“And ’op it,” added his late opponent. “We don’t want none
of your sort ’ere.”</p>
<p>“Den you ain’t my long-lost brudders, after all,” said the
newcomer regretfully. “I t’ought youse didn’t look handsome
enough for dat. Good night to youse, gents.”</p>
<p>“Shet that door, can’t yer, when I’m tellin’ yer!” said the
mummy, with increased asperity.</p>
<p>Spike was reluctantly withdrawing when Jimmy rose.</p>
<p>“One moment,” he said.</p>
<p>Never in his life had Jimmy failed to stand by a friend in need.
Spike was not, perhaps, exactly a friend, but even an acquaintance
could rely on Jimmy when down in the world. And Spike was
manifestly in that condition.</p>
<p>A look of surprise came into the Bowery boy’s face, followed
by one of stolid woodenness. He took the sovereign which
Jimmy held out to him with a muttered word of thanks, and
shuffled out of the room.</p>
<p>“Can’t see what you wanted to give him anything for,” said
Lord Dreever. “Chap’ll only spend it getting tight.”</p>
<p>“Oh, he reminded me of a man I used to know.”</p>
<p>“Did he? Barnum’s what-is-it, I should think,” said his
lordship. “Shall we be moving?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_60">60</div>
<h2 id="c10"><span class="small">★ 10 ★</span>
<br /><i>Jimmy Adopts a Lame Dog</i></h2>
<p>A black figure detached itself from the blacker shadows and
shuffled stealthily to where Jimmy stood on the doorstep.</p>
<p>“That you, Spike?” asked Jimmy, in a low voice.</p>
<p>“Dat’s right, boss.”</p>
<p>“Come on in.”</p>
<p>He led the way up to his rooms, switched on the electric light,
and shut the door. Spike stood blinking at the sudden glare. He
twirled his battered hat in his hands. His red hair shone
fiercely.</p>
<p>Jimmy inspected him out of the corner of his eye, and came to
the conclusion that the Mullins finances must be at a low ebb.
Spike’s costume differed in several important details from that of
the ordinary well-groomed man about town. There was nothing
of the <i>flâneur</i> about the Bowery boy. His hat was of the soft
black felt fashionable on the East Side of New York. It was in
poor condition, and looked as if it had been up too late the night
before. A black tail-coat, burst at the elbows and stained with
mud, was tightly buttoned across his chest, this evidently with
the idea of concealing the fact that he wore no shirt—an attempt
which was not wholly successful. A pair of grey flannel trousers
and boots, out of which two toes peeped coyly, completed the
picture.</p>
<p>Even Spike himself seemed to be aware that there were points
in his appearance which would have distressed the editor of the
<i>Tailor and Cutter</i>.</p>
<p>“’Scuse these duds,” he said. “Me man’s bin an’ mislaid de
trunk wit me best suit in. Dis is me number two.”</p>
<p>“Don’t mention it, Spike,” said Jimmy. “You look a perfect
<i>matinee</i> idol. Have a drink?”</p>
<p>Spike’s eyes gleamed as he reached for the decanter. He took a
seat.</p>
<p>“Cigar, Spike?”</p>
<p>“Sure. T’anks, boss.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_61">61</div>
<p>Jimmy lit his pipe. Spike, after a few genteel sips, threw off his
restraint and finished the rest of his glass at a gulp.</p>
<p>“Try another?” suggested Jimmy.</p>
<p>Spike’s grin showed that the idea had been well received.</p>
<p>Jimmy sat and smoked in silence for a while. He was thinking
the thing over. He felt like a detective who has found a clue. At
last he would be able to discover the name of the <i>Mauretania</i> girl.
The discovery would not take him very far, certainly, but it would
be something. Possibly Spike might even be able to fix the position
of the house they had broken into that night.</p>
<p>Spike was looking at him over his glass with silent admiration.
This flat, which Jimmy had rented for a year, in the hope that the
possession of a fixed abode might help to tie him down to one
spot, was handsomely, even luxuriously, furnished. To Spike
every chair and table in the room had a romance of its own as
having been purchased out of the proceeds of that New Asiatic
Bank robbery, or from the revenue accruing from the Duchess of
Havent’s jewels. He was dumb with reverence for one who could
make burglary pay to this extent. In his own case the profession
had rarely provided anything more than bread and butter and an
occasional trip to Coney Island.</p>
<p>Jimmy caught his eye, and spoke.</p>
<p>“Well, Spike,” he said. “Curious that we should meet like
this?”</p>
<p>“De limit,” agreed Spike.</p>
<p>“I can’t imagine you three thousand miles from New York.
How do you know the cars still run both ways on Broadway?”</p>
<p>A wistful look came into Spike’s eyes.</p>
<p>“I t’ought it was time I give old Lunnon a call. T’ings was
getting too fierce in Noo York. De cops was layin’ for me. Dey
didn’t seem like as if they had any use for me. So I beat it.”</p>
<p>“Bad luck,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Fierce,” agreed Spike.</p>
<p>“Do you know, Spike,” said Jimmy, “I spent a great deal of
time before I left New York looking for you.”</p>
<p>“Gee, I wish you’d found me. And did youse want me to help
on some lay, boss?”</p>
<p>“Well, no, not that. Do you remember that night we broke
into that house up-town—the police-captain’s house?”</p>
<p>“Sure.”</p>
<p>“What was his name?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_62">62</div>
<p>“What, de cop’s? Why, McEachern, boss.”</p>
<p>“Mac what? How do you spell it?”</p>
<p>“Search me,” said Spike, simply.</p>
<p>“Say it again. Fill your lungs and enunciate slowly and clearly.
Be bell-like. Now.”</p>
<p>“McEachern.”</p>
<p>“Ah! And where was the house? Can you remember that?”</p>
<p>Spike’s forehead wrinkled.</p>
<p>“It’s gone,” he said at last. “It was somewheres up some street
up de town.”</p>
<p>“That’s a lot of help,” said Jimmy. “Try again.”</p>
<p>“It’ll come back some time, boss, sure.”</p>
<p>“Then I’m going to keep an eye on you till it does. Just for the
moment you’re the most important man in the world to me.
Where are you living?”</p>
<p>“Me? Why, in de Park. Dat’s right. One of dem swell detached
benches wit a southern exposure.”</p>
<p>“Well, unless you prefer it, you needn’t sleep in the Park any
more. You can pitch your moving tent with me.”</p>
<p>“What, here, boss?”</p>
<p>“Unless we move.”</p>
<p>“Me fer dis,” said Spike, rolling luxuriously in his chair.</p>
<p>“You’ll want some clothes,” said Jimmy. “We’ll get those to-morrow.
You’re the sort of figure they can fit off the peg. You’re
not too tall, which is a good thing.”</p>
<p>“Bad t’ing for me, boss. If I’d bin taller I’d have stood for
being a cop, and bin buying a brown-stone house on Fifth
Avenue by this. It’s de cops makes de big money in little old
Manhattan, dat’s who it is.”</p>
<p>“The man who knows!” said Jimmy. “Tell me more, Spike.
I suppose a good many of the New York force do get rich by
graft?”</p>
<p>“Sure. Look at old man McEachern.”</p>
<p>“I wish I could. Tell me about him, Spike. You seemed to
know him pretty well.”</p>
<p>“Me? Sure. Dere wasn’t a worse grafter dan him in de bunch.
He was out for the dough all the time. But, say, did youse ever
see his girl?”</p>
<p>“What’s that?” said Jimmy sharply.</p>
<p>“I seen her once.” Spike became almost lyrical in his enthusiasm.
“Gee, she was a bird. A peach for fair. I’d have left me
<span class="pb" id="Page_63">63</span>
happy home for her. Molly was her monaker. She——”</p>
<p>Jimmy was glaring at him.</p>
<p>“Drop it!” he cried.</p>
<p>“What’s dat, boss?” said Spike.</p>
<p>“Cut it out!” said Jimmy savagely.</p>
<p>Spike looked at him amazed.</p>
<p>“Sure,” he said, puzzled, but realising that his words had not
pleased the great man.</p>
<p>Jimmy chewed the stem of his pipe irritably, while Spike, full
of excellent intentions, sat on the edge of his chair drawing
sorrowfully at his cigar and wondering what he had done to give
offence.</p>
<p>“Boss?” said Spike.</p>
<p>“Halloa!”</p>
<p>“Boss, what’s doin’ here? Put me next to de game. Is it de old
lay? Banks and jools from duchesses! You’ll be able to let me sit
in on de game, won’t you?”</p>
<p>“I’d quite forgotten I hadn’t told you about myself, Spike.
I’ve retired.”</p>
<p>The horrid truth sank slowly into the other’s mind.</p>
<p>“Say! What’s dat, boss? You’re cuttin’ it out?”</p>
<p>“That’s it. Absolutely.”</p>
<p>“Ain’t youse swiping no more jools?”</p>
<p>“Not me.”</p>
<p>“Nor usin’ de what’s-its-name blow-pipe?”</p>
<p>“I have sold my oxyacetylene blow-pipe, given away my
anaesthetics, and am going to turn over a new leaf and settle down
as a respectable citizen.”</p>
<p>Spike gasped. His world had fallen about his ears. His excursion
with Jimmy, the master cracksman, in New York had been the
highest and proudest memory of his life, and now that he had met
him again in London, he had looked forward to a long and
prosperous partnership in crime. He was content that his own
share in the partnership should be humble. It was enough for
him to be connected, however humbly, with such a master. He
had looked upon the richness of London, and he had said with
Blucher, “What a city to loot!”</p>
<p>And here was his idol shattering his visions with a word.</p>
<p>“Have another drink, Spike,” said the Lost Leader sympathetically.
“It’s a shock to you, I expect.”</p>
<p>“I t’ought, boss——”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_64">64</div>
<p>“I know, I know. These are life’s tragedies. I’m very sorry for
you; but it can’t be helped.”</p>
<p>Spike sat silent, with a long face. Jimmy slapped him on the
shoulder.</p>
<p>“Cheer up,” he said. “How do you know that living honestly
may not be splendid fun? Numbers of people do it, you know,
and enjoy themselves tremendously. You must give it a trial,
Spike.”</p>
<p>“Me, boss? What, me too?”</p>
<p>“Rather. You’re my link with——I don’t want to have you
remembering that address in the second month of a ten-year spell
at Dartmoor. I’m going to look after you, Spike, my son, like a
lynx. We’ll go out together and see life. Buck up, Spike! Be
cheerful! Grin!”</p>
<p>After a moment’s reflection the other grinned, howbeit faintly.</p>
<p>“That’s right,” said Jimmy. “We’ll go into society, Spike,
hand in hand. You’ll be a terrific success in society. All you have
to do is to look cheerful, brush your hair, and keep your hands
off the spoons, for in the best circles they invariably count them
after the departure of the last guest.”</p>
<p>“Sure,” said Spike, as one who thoroughly understood this
sensible precaution.</p>
<p>“And now,” said Jimmy, “we’ll be turning in. Can you
manage sleeping on the sofa one night? Some fellows would give
their bed up to you. However, I’ll have a bed made up for you
to-morrow.”</p>
<p>“Me!” said Spike. “Gee! I’ve been sleepin’ in de Park all de
last week. Dis is to de good, boss.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_65">65</div>
<h2 id="c11"><span class="small">★ 11 ★</span>
<br /><i>At the Turn of the Road</i></h2>
<p>On the morning after the meeting at the Savoy when Jimmy,
having sent Spike off to the tailor’s, was dealing with a
combination of breakfast and lunch at his flat, Lord Dreever
called.</p>
<p>“Thought I should find you in,” observed his lordship. “Well,
laddie, how goes it? Having breakfast? Eggs <i>and</i> bacon! Great
Scot, I couldn’t touch a thing!”</p>
<p>The statement was borne out by his looks. The son of a hundred
earls was pale, and his eyes were markedly fish-like.</p>
<p>“A fellow I’ve got stopping with me—taking him down to
Dreever with me to-day—man I met at the club—fellow named
Hargate. Don’t know if you know him? No? Well, he was still
up when I got back last night, and we stayed up playing pills—he’s
rotten at pills; something frightful; I give him thirty—till
five this morning. I feel frightfully cheap. Wouldn’t have got up
at all, only I’m due to catch the two-fifteen down to Dreever. It’s
the only good train.”</p>
<p>He dropped into a chair.</p>
<p>“Sorry you don’t feel up to breakfast,” said Jimmy, helping
himself to marmalade. “I am generally to be found among those
lining up when the gong goes. I’ve breakfasted on a glass of water
and a bag of bird-seed in my time. That sort of thing makes you
ready to take whatever you can get. Seen the papers?”</p>
<p>“Thanks.”</p>
<p>Jimmy finished his breakfast and lit a pipe. Lord Dreever laid
down the paper.</p>
<p>“I say,” he said, “what I came round about was this. What have
you got on just now?”</p>
<p>Jimmy had imagined that his friend had dropped in to return
the five-pound note he had borrowed, but his lordship maintained
a complete reserve on the subject. Jimmy was to discover later
that this weakness of memory where financial obligations were
concerned was a leading trait in Lord Dreever’s character.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_66">66</div>
<p>“To-day, do you mean?” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Well, in the near future. What I mean is, why not put off that
Japan trip you spoke about and come down to Dreever with me?”</p>
<p>Jimmy reflected. After all, Japan or Dreever, it made very little
difference. And it would be interesting seeing a place about which
he had read so much.</p>
<p>“That’s very good of you,” he said. “You’re sure it will be all
right? It won’t be upsetting your arrangements?”</p>
<p>“Not a bit. The more the merrier. Can’t you catch the two-fifteen?
It’s fearfully short notice.”</p>
<p>“Heavens, yes. I can pack in ten minutes. Thanks very
much.”</p>
<p>“Stout fellow. There’ll be shooting and all that sort of rot. Oh!
by the way, are you any good at acting? I mean, I believe there
are going to be private theatricals of sorts. A man called Charteris
is getting them up. Cambridge man; belongs to the Footlights.
Always getting up theatricals. Rot, I call it; but you can’t stop
him. Do you do anything in that line?”</p>
<p>“Put me down for what you like, from Emperor of Morocco to
Confused Noise Without. I was on the stage once. I’m particularly
good at shifting scenery.”</p>
<p>“Good for you. Well, so long. Two-fifteen from Paddington,
remember. I’ll meet you there. I’ve got to go and see a fellow
now.”</p>
<p>“I’ll look out for you.”</p>
<p>A sudden thought occurred to Jimmy. Spike! He had forgotten
Spike for the moment. It was vital that the Bowery boy should not
be lost sight of again. He was the one link with the little house
somewhere beyond One Hundred and Fiftieth Street. He could
not leave the Bowery boy at the flat. A vision rose in his mind of
Spike alone in London with Savoy Mansions as a base for his
operations. No; Spike must be transplanted to the country. He
could not seem to see Spike in the country. His boredom would
probably be pathetic. But it was the only way.</p>
<p>Lord Dreever facilitated matters.</p>
<p>“By the way, Pitt,” he said, “you’ve got a man of sorts, of
course? One of those frightful fellows who forget to pack your
collars! Bring him along, of course.”</p>
<p>“Thanks,” said Jimmy. “I will.”</p>
<p>The matter had scarcely been settled when the door opened
and revealed the subject of discussion. Wearing a broad grin of
<span class="pb" id="Page_67">67</span>
mingled pride and bashfulness, and looking very stiff and awkward
in one of the brightest tweed suits ever seen off the stage, Spike
stood for a moment in the doorway to let his appearance sink
into the spectator; then advanced into the room.</p>
<p>“How do dese strike you, boss?” he inquired genially, as Lord
Dreever gaped in astonishment at this bright being.</p>
<p>“Pretty nearly blind, Spike,” said Jimmy. “What made you get
those? We use electric light here.”</p>
<p>Spike was full of news.</p>
<p>“Say, boss, dat clothing-store’s a willy wonder, sure. De old
mug what showed me round give me de frozen face when I came
in foist. ‘What’s doin’?’ he says. ‘To de woods wit you! git de
hook!’ But I hands out de plunks you give me, an’ tells him how
I’m here to get a dude suit, an’ gee! if he don’t haul out suits by
de mile. Give me a toist, it did, watching him. ‘It’s up to youse,’
says de mug. ‘Choose somet’ing. You pays de money, an’ we does
de rest.’ So I says dis is de one, and I put down de plunks, an’
here I am, boss.”</p>
<p>“I noticed that, Spike,” said Jimmy. “I could see you in the
dark.”</p>
<p>“Don’t you like de duds, boss?” inquired Spike anxiously.</p>
<p>“They’re the last word,” said Jimmy. “You’d make Solomon
in all his glory look like a tramp cyclist.”</p>
<p>“Dat’s right,” agreed Spike. “Dey’se de limit.”</p>
<p>And, apparently oblivious to the presence of Lord Dreever,
who had been watching him in blank silence since his entrance,
the Bowery boy proceeded to execute a mysterious shuffling dance
on the carpet.</p>
<p>This was too much for the overwrought brain of his lordship.</p>
<p>“Good-bye, Pitt,” he said; “I’m off. Got to see a man.”</p>
<p>Jimmy saw him to the door.</p>
<p>Outside, Lord Dreever placed the palm of his right hand on his
forehead.</p>
<p>“I say, Pitt,” he said.</p>
<p>“Halloa!”</p>
<p>“Who the devil’s that?”</p>
<p>“Who? Spike? Oh, that’s my man.”</p>
<p>“Your man! Is he always like that?—I mean going on like a
frightful music-hall comedian, dancing, you know? And, I say,
what on earth language was that he was talking? I couldn’t
understand one word in ten.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_68">68</div>
<p>“Oh, that’s American—the Bowery variety.”</p>
<p>“Oh! Well, I suppose it’s all right if you understand it. I can’t.
By Gad!” he broke off, with a chuckle, “I’d give something to see
him talking to old Saunders, our butler at home. He’s got the
manners of a duke.”</p>
<p>“Spike should revise those,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“What do you call him?”</p>
<p>“Spike.”</p>
<p>“Rummy name, isn’t it?”</p>
<p>“Fashionable in the States; short for Algernon.”</p>
<p>“He seemed pretty chummy.”</p>
<p>“That’s his independent bringing-up. They’re all like that in
America.”</p>
<p>“Jolly country.”</p>
<p>“You’d love it.”</p>
<p>“Well, so long.”</p>
<p>“So long.”</p>
<p>On the bottom step Lord Dreever halted.</p>
<p>“I say, I’ve got it!”</p>
<p>“Good for you; got what?”</p>
<p>“Why, I knew I’d seen that chap’s face somewhere before, only
I couldn’t place him. I’ve got him now. He’s the Johnny who came
into the shelter last night—chap you gave a quid to.”</p>
<p>Spike’s was one of those faces which, without being essentially
beautiful, stamp themselves on the memory.</p>
<p>“You’re quite right,” said Jimmy. “I was wondering if you
would recognise him. Would you prefer a cigar or a cocoanut?
The fact is, he’s a man I once employed over in New York, and
when I came across him over here he was so evidently wanting a
bit of help that I took him on again. As a matter of fact I needed
somebody to look after my things, and Spike can do it as well as
anybody else.”</p>
<p>“I see. Not bad my spotting him, was it? Well, I must be off.
Good-bye. Two-fifteen at Paddington. Meet you there. Book for
Dreever if you’re there before me.”</p>
<p>“Right. Good-bye.”</p>
<p>Jimmy returned to the dining-room. Spike, who was examining
as much as he could of himself in the glass, turned round with his
wonted grin.</p>
<p>“Say, who’s de gazebo, boss? Ain’t he de mug youse was wit
last night?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_69">69</div>
<p>“That’s the man. We’re going down with him to the country
to-day, Spike, so be ready.”</p>
<p>“On your way, boss. What’s dat?”</p>
<p>“He has invited us to his country house, and we’re going.”</p>
<p>“What? Bote of us?”</p>
<p>“Yes. I told him you were my servant. I hope you aren’t
offended.”</p>
<p>“Nit. What’s dere to be offended at, boss?”</p>
<p>“That’s all right. Well, we’d better be packing. We have to be
at the station at a quarter to two.”</p>
<p>“Sure.”</p>
<p>“And, Spike.”</p>
<p>“Yes, boss?”</p>
<p>“Did you get any other clothes besides what you’ve got on?”</p>
<p>“Nit. What do I want wit more dan one dude suit?”</p>
<p>“I approve of your rugged simplicity,” said Jimmy, “but what
you’re wearing is a town suit, excellent for the Park or the
Marchioness’s Thursday crush, but essentially metropolitan. You
must get something else for the country, something dark and
quiet. I’ll come and help you choose it, now.”</p>
<p>“Why, won’t dis go in de country?”</p>
<p>“Not on your life, Spike. It would unsettle the rustic mind.
They’re fearfully particular about that sort of thing in England.”</p>
<p>“Dey’s to de bad,” said the baffled disciple of Beau Brummell,
with deep discontent.</p>
<p>“And there’s just one thing more, Spike. I know you’ll excuse
me mentioning it. When we’re at Dreever Castle you will find
yourself within reach of a good deal of silver and other things.
Would it be too much to ask you to forget your professional
instincts? I mentioned this before in a general sort of way, but
this is a particular case.”</p>
<p>“Ain’t I to get busy at all, den?” queried Spike.</p>
<p>“Not so much as a salt-spoon,” said Jimmy firmly. “Now we’ll
whistle a cab and go and choose you some more clothes.”</p>
<p>Accompanied by Spike, who came within an ace of looking
almost respectable in new blue serge (“small gent’s”—off the
peg), Jimmy arrived at Paddington with a quarter of an hour to
spare. Lord Dreever appeared ten minutes later, accompanied by
a man of about Jimmy’s age. He was tall and thin, with cold eyes
and tight, thin lips. His clothes fitted him in the way clothes do
fit one man in a thousand. They were the best part of him. His
<span class="pb" id="Page_70">70</span>
general appearance gave one the idea that his meals did him little
good, and his meditations rather less. He had practically no
conversation.</p>
<p>This was Lord Dreever’s friend Hargate—the Hon. Louis
Hargate. Lord Dreever made the two acquainted; but even as
they shook hands Jimmy had an impression that he had seen the
man before, but where or in what circumstances he could not
remember. Hargate appeared to have no recollection of him, so he
did not mention the matter. A man who has led a wandering life
often sees faces which come back to him later on, absolutely
detached from their context. He might merely have passed Lord
Dreever’s friend in the street. But Jimmy had an idea that the
other had figured in some episode which at the moment had had
an importance.</p>
<p>What that episode was had escaped him. He dismissed the
thing from his mind. It was not worth harrying his memory about.</p>
<p>Judicious tipping had secured them a compartment to themselves.
Hargate, having read the evening paper, went to sleep in
the far corner. Jimmy and Lord Dreever, who sat opposite one
another, fell into a desultory conversation.</p>
<p>At Reading Lord Dreever’s remarks took a somewhat intimate
turn. Jimmy was one of those men whose manner invites confidences.
His lordship began to unburden his soul of certain facts
relating to the family.</p>
<p>“Have you ever met my Uncle Thomas?” he inquired. “You
know Blunt’s Stores? Well, he’s Blunt. It’s a company now, but
he still runs it. He married my aunt. You’ll meet him at Dreever.”</p>
<p>Jimmy said he would be delighted.</p>
<p>“I bet you won’t,” said the last of the Dreevers, with candour.
“He’s a frightful man—the limit. Always fussing round like a
hen. Gives me a fearful time, I can tell you. Look here, I don’t
mind telling you—we’re pals—he’s dead set on my marrying a
rich girl.”</p>
<p>“Well, that sounds all right. There are worse hobbies. Any
particular rich girl?”</p>
<p>“There’s always one. He sticks me on to one after another.
Quite nice girls, you know, some of them, only I want to marry
somebody else—that girl you saw me with at the Savoy.”</p>
<p>“Why don’t you tell your uncle?”</p>
<p>“He’d have a fit. She hasn’t a penny. Nor have I, except what I
get from him. Of course, this is strictly between ourselves.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_71">71</div>
<p>“Of course.”</p>
<p>“I know everybody thinks there’s money attached to the title;
but there isn’t—not a penny. When my Aunt Julia married Sir
Thomas the whole frightful show was pretty well in pawn. So
you see how it is.”</p>
<p>“Ever think of work?” asked Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Work?” said Lord Dreever reflectively. “Well, you know, I
shouldn’t mind work, only I’m dashed if I can see what I could
do. I shouldn’t know how. Nowadays you want a fearful specialised
education, and so on. Tell you what, though, I shouldn’t mind
the Diplomatic Service. One of these days I shall have a dash at
asking my uncle to put up the money. I believe I shouldn’t be
half bad at that. I’m rather a quick sort of chap at times you
know. Lots of fellows have said so.”</p>
<p>He cleared his throat modestly, and proceeded.</p>
<p>“It isn’t only my Uncle Thomas,” he said; “there’s Aunt
Julia too. She’s about as much the limit as he is. I remember
when I was a kid she was always sitting on me. She does still.
Wait till you see her. Sort of woman who makes you feel that
your hands are the colour of tomatoes and the size of legs of
mutton, if you know what I mean. And talks as if she were biting
at you. Frightful!”</p>
<p>Having unburdened himself of which criticism, he yawned,
leaned back, and was presently asleep.</p>
<p>It was about an hour later that the train, which had been
taking itself less seriously for some time, stopping at all stations
of quite minor importance, and generally showing a tendency to
dawdle, halted again. A board with the legend “Dreever” in
large letters showed that they had reached their destination.</p>
<p>The station-master informed Lord Dreever that her ladyship
had come to meet the train in the motor car, and was now
waiting in the road outside.</p>
<p>Lord Dreever’s jaw fell.</p>
<p>“Oh, Lord!” he said. “She’s probably motored in to get the
afternoon letters. That means she’s come in the runabout, and
there’s only room for two of us in that. I forgot to write that you
were coming, Pitt. I only wired about Hargate. Dash it, I shall
have to walk.”</p>
<p>His fears proved correct. The car at the station-door was
small. It was obviously designed to seat four only.</p>
<p>Lord Dreever introduced Hargate and Jimmy to the statuesque
<span class="pb" id="Page_72">72</span>
lady in the tonneau, and then there was an awkward silence.</p>
<p>At this point Spike came up, chuckling amiably, with a magazine
in his hand.</p>
<p>“Gee!” said Spike. “Say, boss, de mug what wrote dis piece
must have bin livin’ out in de woods. Say, dere’s a gazebo who
wants to swipe de heroine’s jools what’s locked in a drawer. So dis
mug—what do you t’ink he does?” Spike laughed shortly, in
professional scorn. “Why——”</p>
<p>“Is this gentleman a friend of yours, Spennie?” inquired Lady
Julia politely, eyeing the red-haired speaker coldly.</p>
<p>“It’s——”</p>
<p>He looked appealingly at Jimmy.</p>
<p>“It’s my man,” said Jimmy. “Spike,” he added, in an undertone,
“to the woods. Chase yourself. Fade away.”</p>
<p>“Sure,” said the abashed Spike. “Dat’s right. It ain’t up to me
to come buttin’ in. Sorry, boss. Sorry, gents. Sorry, loidy. Me for
the tall grass.”</p>
<p>“There’s a luggage cart of sorts,” said Lord Dreever, pointing.</p>
<p>“Sure,” said Spike, affably. He trotted away.</p>
<p>“Jump in, Pitt,” said Lord Dreever. “I’m going to walk.”</p>
<p>“No, I’ll walk,” said Jimmy. “I’d rather. I want a bit of
exercise. Which way do I go?”</p>
<p>“Frightfully good of you, old chap,” said Lord Dreever. “Sure
you don’t mind? I do bar walking. Right-O! You keep straight
on.”</p>
<p>Jimmy watched them out of sight and started to follow at a
leisurely pace. It certainly was an ideal afternoon for a country
walk. The sun was just hesitating whether to treat the time as
afternoon or evening. Eventually it decided that it was evening
and moderated its beams. After London the country was
deliciously fresh and cool. Jimmy felt an unwonted content. It
seemed to him just then that the only thing worth doing in the
world was to settle down somewhere with three acres and a cow
and become pastoral.</p>
<p>There was a marked lack of traffic on the road. Once he met a
cart and once a flock of sheep with a friendly dog. Sometimes a
rabbit would dash out into the road, stop to listen, and dart into
the opposite hedge, all hind-legs and white scut. But except for
these he was alone in the world.</p>
<p>And gradually there began to be borne in upon him the conviction
that he had lost his way.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_73">73</div>
<p>It is difficult to judge distance when one is walking but it
certainly seemed to Jimmy that he must have covered five miles
by this time. He must have mistaken the way. He had certainly
come straight; he could not have come straighter. On the other
hand, it would be quite in keeping with the cheap substitute which
served the Earl of Dreever in place of a mind that he should have
forgotten to mention some important turning. Jimmy sat down by
the roadside.</p>
<p>As he sat there came to him from down the road the sound of a
horse’s feet trotting. He got up. Here was somebody at last who
would direct him.</p>
<p>“Halloa!” he said. “Accident? And, by Jove, a side-saddle!”</p>
<p>Jimmy stopped the horse, and led it back the way it had come.
As he turned the bend in the road he saw a girl in a riding-habit
running towards him. She stopped running when she caught sight
of him, and slowed down to walk.</p>
<p>“Thank you ever so much,” she said, taking the reins from him.
“Dandy, you naughty old thing!”</p>
<p>Jimmy looked at her flushed, smiling face, and stood staring.
It was Molly McEachern.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_74">74</div>
<h2 id="c12"><span class="small">★ 12 ★</span>
<br /><i>Making a Start</i></h2>
<p>Self-possession was one of Jimmy’s leading characteristics, but
for the moment he found himself speechless. This girl had
been occupying his thoughts for so long that—in his mind—he
had grown very intimate with her. It was something of a shock to
come suddenly out of his dreams and face the fact that she was in
reality practically a stranger. He felt as one might with a friend
whose memory has been wiped out. It went against the grain to
have to begin again from the beginning after all the time they had
been together.</p>
<p>A curious constraint fell upon him.</p>
<p>“Why, how do you do, Mr. Pitt?” she said, holding out her
hand.</p>
<p>Jimmy began to feel better. It was something that she remembered
his name.</p>
<p>“It’s like meeting somebody out of a dream,” said Molly. “I
have sometimes wondered if you were real. Everything that
happened that night was so like a dream.”</p>
<p>Jimmy found his tongue.</p>
<p>“You haven’t altered,” he said; “you look just the same.”</p>
<p>“Well,” she laughed, “after all, it’s not so long ago, is it?”</p>
<p>He was conscious of a dull hurt. To him it had seemed years.
But he was nothing to her—just an acquaintance, one of a
hundred. But what more, he asked himself, could he have
expected? And with the thought came consolation. The painful
sense of having lost ground left him. He saw he had been allowing
things to get out of proportion. He had not lost ground. He had
gained it. He had met her again and she remembered him. What
more had he any right to ask?</p>
<p>“I’ve crammed a good deal into the time,” he explained. “I’ve
been travelling about a bit since we met.”</p>
<p>“Do you live in Shropshire?” asked Molly.</p>
<p>“No. I’m on a visit—at least, I’m supposed to be; but I’ve lost
the way to the place, and I am beginning to doubt if I shall ever
<span class="pb" id="Page_75">75</span>
get there. I was told to go straight on. I’ve gone straight on, and
here I am, lost in the snow. Do you happen to know whereabouts
Dreever Castle is?”</p>
<p>She laughed.</p>
<p>“Why,” she said, “I’m staying at Dreever Castle myself.”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“So the first person you meet turns out to be an experienced
guide. You’re lucky, Mr. Pitt.”</p>
<p>“You’re right,” said Jimmy slowly; “I am.”</p>
<p>“Did you come down with Lord Dreever? He passed me in the
car just as I was starting out. He was with another man and Lady
Julia Blunt. Surely he didn’t make you walk?”</p>
<p>“I offered to walk. Somebody had to. Apparently he had forgotten
to let them know he was bringing me.”</p>
<p>“And then he misdirected you! He’s very casual, I’m afraid.”</p>
<p>“Inclined that way, perhaps.”</p>
<p>“Have you known Lord Dreever long?”</p>
<p>“Since a quarter-past twelve last night.”</p>
<p>“Last night!”</p>
<p>“We met at the Savoy, and later on the Embankment. We
looked at the river together and told each other the painful stories
of our lives, and this morning he called and invited me down
here.”</p>
<p>Molly looked at him with frank amusement.</p>
<p>“You must be a very restless sort of person,” she said. “You
seem to do a great deal of moving about.”</p>
<p>“I do,” said Jimmy. “I can’t keep still. I’ve got the go-fever,
like the man in Kipling’s book.”</p>
<p>“But he was in love.”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Jimmy; “he was. That’s the bacillus, you
know.”</p>
<p>She shot a quick glance at him. He became suddenly interesting
to her. She was at the age of dreams and speculations. From being
merely an ordinary young man with rather more ease of manner
than the majority of the young men she had met, he developed
in an instant into something worthy of closer attention. He took
on a certain mystery and romance. She wondered what sort of a
girl it was that he loved. Examining him in the light of this new
discovery, she found him attractive. Something seemed to have
happened to put her in sympathy with him. She noticed for the
first time a latent forcefulness behind the pleasantness of his
<span class="pb" id="Page_76">76</span>
manner. His self-possession was the self-possession of the man
who had been tried and has found himself.</p>
<p>At the bottom of her consciousness, too, there was a faint
stirring of some emotion, which she could not analyse, not unlike
pain. It was vaguely reminiscent of the agony of loneliness which
she had experienced as a small child on the rare occasions when
her father had been busy and distrait and had shown her by his
manner that she was outside his thoughts. This was but a pale
suggestion of that misery, but nevertheless there was a resemblance.
It was a rather desolate, shut-out sensation, half resentful.</p>
<p>It was gone in a moment. But it had been there. It had passed
over her heart as the shadow of a cloud moves across a meadow in
the summer-time.</p>
<p>For some moments she stood without speaking. Jimmy did not
break the silence. He was looking at her with an appeal in his
eyes. Why could she not understand? She must understand.</p>
<p>But the eyes that met his were those of a child.</p>
<p>As they stood there the horse, which had been cropping in a
perfunctory manner at the short grass by the roadside, raised his
head and neighed impatiently. There was something so human
about the performance that Jimmy and the girl laughed
simultaneously. The utter materialism of the neigh broke the
spell. It was a noisy demand for food.</p>
<p>“Poor Dandy!” said Molly. “He knows he’s near home, and he
knows it’s his dinner-time.”</p>
<p>“Are we near the castle, then?”</p>
<p>“It’s a long way round by the road, but we can cut across the
fields. Aren’t these English fields and hedges just perfect? I love
them! Of course I loved America, but——”</p>
<p>“Have you left New York long?” asked Jimmy.</p>
<p>“We came over here about a month after you were at our
house.”</p>
<p>“You didn’t spend much time there, then?”</p>
<p>“Father had just made a good deal of money in Wall Street. He
must have been making it when I was on the <i>Mauretania</i>. He
wanted to leave New York, so we didn’t wait. We were in London
all the winter. Then we went over to Paris. It was there we met
Sir Thomas Blunt and Lady Julia. Have you met them? They are
Lord Dreever’s uncle and aunt.”</p>
<p>“I’ve met Lady Julia.”</p>
<p>“Do you like her?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_77">77</div>
<p>Jimmy hesitated.</p>
<p>“Well, you see——”</p>
<p>“I know. She’s your hostess, but you haven’t started your visit
yet, so you’ve just got time to say what you really think of her
before you have to pretend she’s perfect.”</p>
<p>“Well——”</p>
<p>“I detest her,” said Molly crisply. “I think she’s hard and
hateful.”</p>
<p>“Well, I can’t say she struck me as a sort of female Cheeryble
Brother. Lord Dreever introduced me to her at the station. She
seemed to bear it pluckily, but with some difficulty.”</p>
<p>“She’s hateful,” repeated Molly. “So is he—Sir Thomas, I
mean. He’s one of those fussy, bullying little men. They both
bully poor Lord Dreever till I wonder he doesn’t rebel. They
treat him like a schoolboy. It makes me wild. It’s such a shame.
He’s so nice and good-natured. I am so sorry for him.”</p>
<p>Jimmy listened to this outburst with mixed feelings. It was
sweet of her to be so sympathetic; but was it merely sympathy?
There had been a ring in her voice and a flush on her cheek which
had suggested to Jimmy’s sensitive mind a personal interest in
the down-trodden peer. Reason told him that it was foolish to be
jealous of Lord Dreever. A good fellow, of course, but not to be
taken seriously. The primitive man in him, on the other hand,
made him hate all Molly’s male friends with an unreasoning
hatred. Not that he hated Lord Dreever. He liked him. But he
doubted if he could go on liking him for long if Molly were to
continue in this sympathetic strain.</p>
<p>His affection for the absent one was not put to the test. Molly’s
next remark had to do with Sir Thomas.</p>
<p>“The worst of it is,” she said, “father and Sir Thomas are
such friends. In Paris they were always together. Father did him
a very good turn.”</p>
<p>“How was that?”</p>
<p>“It was one afternoon just after we arrived. A man got into
Lady Julia’s room while we were all out except father. Father saw
him go into the room, and suspecting something was wrong,
went in after him. The man was trying to steal Lady Julia’s
jewels. He had opened the box where they were kept, and was
actually holding her rope of diamonds in his hand when father
found him. It’s the most magnificent thing I ever saw. Sir
Thomas told father he gave a hundred thousand dollars for it.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_78">78</div>
<p>“But surely,” said Jimmy, “hadn’t the management of the
hotel a safe for valuables?”</p>
<p>“Of course they had; but you don’t know Sir Thomas. He
wasn’t going to trust any hotel safe. He’s the sort of man who
insists on doing everything in his own way, and who always
imagines he can do things better for himself than anyone else can
do them for him. He had had this special box made, and would
never keep the diamonds anywhere else. Naturally the thief
opened it in a minute. A clever thief would have no difficulty with
a thing like that.”</p>
<p>“What happened?”</p>
<p>“Oh, the man saw father and dropped the jewels, and ran off
down the corridor. Father chased him a little way, but, of course,
it was no good; so he went back and shouted and rang every bell
he could see and gave the alarm, but the man was never found.
Still, he left the diamonds. That was the great thing, after all.
You must look at them to-night at dinner. They really are wonderful.
Are you a judge of precious stones at all?”</p>
<p>“I am, rather,” said Jimmy; “in fact, a jeweller I once knew
told me I had a natural gift in that direction. And so, of course,
Sir Thomas was pretty grateful to your father?”</p>
<p>“He simply gushed. He couldn’t do enough for him. You see,
if the diamonds had been stolen I’m sure Lady Julia would have
made Sir Thomas buy her another rope just as good. He’s terrified
of her, I’m certain. He tries not to show it; but he is. And
besides having to pay another hundred thousand dollars, he
would never have heard the last of it. It would have ruined his
reputation for being infallible and doing everything better than
anybody else.”</p>
<p>“But didn’t the mere fact that the thief got the jewels and was
only stopped by a fluke from getting away with them do that?”</p>
<p>Molly bubbled with laughter.</p>
<p>“She never knew. Sir Thomas got back to the hotel an hour
before she did. I’ve never seen such a busy hour. He had the
manager up and harangued him, and swore him to secrecy—which
the poor manager was only too glad to agree to, because it
wouldn’t have done the hotel any good to have it known. And the
manager harangued the servants, and the servants harangued
each other, and everybody talked at the same time, and father and
I promised not to tell a soul; so Lady Julia doesn’t know a word
about it to this day. And I don’t see why she ever should; though
<span class="pb" id="Page_79">79</span>
one of these days I’ve a good mind to tell Lord Dreever! Think
what a hold he would have over them! They’d never be able to
bully him again.”</p>
<p>“I shouldn’t,” said Jimmy, trying to keep a touch of coldness
out of his voice. This championship of Lord Dreever, however
sweet and admirable, was a little distressing.</p>
<p>She looked up quickly.</p>
<p>“You don’t think I really meant to, do you?”</p>
<p>“No, no,” said Jimmy hastily. “Of course not.”</p>
<p>“Well, I should think so!” said Molly indignantly. “After I
promised not to tell a soul about it.”</p>
<p>Jimmy chuckled.</p>
<p>“It’s nothing,” he said, in answer to her look of inquiry.</p>
<p>“You laughed at something.”</p>
<p>“Well,” said Jimmy apologetically, “it’s only—it’s nothing
really—only what I meant is, you have just told one soul a good
deal about it, haven’t you?”</p>
<p>Molly turned pink. Then she smiled.</p>
<p>“I don’t know how I came to do it,” she declared. “It rushed
out of its own accord. I suppose it is because I know I can trust
you.”</p>
<p>Jimmy flushed with pleasure. He turned to her and half
halted, but she continued to walk on.</p>
<p>“You can,” he said; “but how do you know you can?”</p>
<p>“Why,” she said—she stopped for a moment, and then went on
hurriedly, with a touch of embarrassment—“why, how absurd!
Of course I know. Can’t you read faces? I can. Look,” she said,
pointing, “now you can see the castle. How do you like it?”</p>
<p>They had reached a point where the fields sloped sharply
downward. A few hundred yards away, backed by woods, stood
the grey mass of stone which proved such a kill-joy of old to the
Welsh sportsman during the peasant season. Even now it had a
certain air of defiance. The setting sun lit up the waters of the
lake. No figures were to be seen moving in the grounds. The
place resembled a palace of sleep.</p>
<p>“Well!” said Molly.</p>
<p>“It’s wonderful!”</p>
<p>“Isn’t it? I’m so glad it strikes you like that. I always feel as if
I had invented everything round here. It hurts me if people don’t
appreciate it.”</p>
<p>They went down the hill.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_80">80</div>
<p>“By the way,” said Jimmy, “are you acting in these theatricals
they are getting up?”</p>
<p>“Yes. Are you the other man they were going to get? That’s
why Lord Dreever went up to London, to see if he couldn’t find
somebody. The man who was going to play one of the parts had
to go back to London on business.”</p>
<p>“Poor brute!” said Jimmy. It seemed to him at that moment
that there was only one place in the world where a man might be
even reasonably happy. “What sort of part is it? Lord Dreever
said I should be wanted to act. What do I do?”</p>
<p>“If you’re Lord Herbert, which is the part they wanted a man
for, you talk to me most of the time.”</p>
<p>Jimmy decided that the piece had been well cast.</p>
<p>The dressing-gong sounded just as they entered the hall. From
a door on the left there emerged two men—a big one and a little
one—in friendly conversation. The big man’s back struck Jimmy
as familiar.</p>
<p>“Oh, father!” Molly called. And Jimmy knew where he had
seen the back before.</p>
<p>“Sir Thomas,” said Molly, “this is Mr. Pitt.”</p>
<p>The little man gave Jimmy a rapid glance—possibly with the
object of detecting his more immediately obvious criminal points;
then, as if satisfied as to his honesty, became genial.</p>
<p>“I am very glad to meet you, Mr. Pitt—very glad,” he said.
“We have been expecting you for some time.”</p>
<p>Jimmy explained that he had lost his way.</p>
<p>“Exactly. It was ridiculous that you should be compelled to
walk—perfectly ridiculous. It was gross carelessness of my
nephew not to let us know that you were coming. My wife told
him so in the car.”</p>
<p>“I bet she did,” said Jimmy to himself. “Really,” he said
aloud, by way of lending a helping hand to a friend in trouble, “I
preferred to walk. I have not been on a country road since I
landed in England.” He turned to the big man and held out his
hand. “I don’t suppose you remember me, Mr. McEachern.
We met in New York.”</p>
<p>“You remember the night Mr. Pitt scared away our burglar,
father?” said Molly.</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern was momentarily silent. On his native asphalt
there are few situations capable of throwing the New York
policeman off his balance. In that favoured clime <i>savoir-faire</i> is
<span class="pb" id="Page_81">81</span>
represented by a shrewd blow of the fist, and a masterful stroke
with the truncheon amounts to a satisfactory repartee. Thus shall
you never take a policeman of Manhattan without his answer. In
other surroundings Mr. McEachern would have known how to
deal with the young man whom with such good reason he believed
to be an expert criminal. But another plan of action was needed
here. First and foremost of all the hints on etiquette which he had
imbibed since he entered this more reposeful life came this
maxim, “Never make a scene.” Scenes, he had gathered, were of
all things what polite society most resolutely abhorred. The
natural man in him must be bound in chains. The sturdy blow
must give way to the honeyed word. A cold “Really!” was the
most vigorous retort that the best circles would countenance.</p>
<p>It had cost Mr. McEachern some pains to learn this lesson, but
he had done it.</p>
<p>He shook hands and gruffly acknowledged the acquaintanceship.</p>
<p>“Really, really!” chirped Sir Thomas amiably. “So you find
yourself among old friends, Mr. Pitt.”</p>
<p>“Old friends,” echoed Jimmy, painfully conscious of the ex-policeman’s
eyes, which were boring holes in him.</p>
<p>“Excellent, excellent! Let me take you to your room. It is just
opposite my own. This way.”</p>
<p>They parted from Mr. McEachern on the first landing, but
Jimmy could still feel those eyes. The policeman’s stare had been
of the sort which turns corners, goes upstairs, and pierces walls.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_82">82</div>
<h2 id="c13"><span class="small">★ 13 ★</span>
<br /><i>Spike’s Views</i></h2>
<p>Nevertheless, it was in a very exalted frame of mind that he
dressed for dinner. It seemed to him that he had awakened
from a sort of stupor. Life, so grey yesterday, now appeared full of
colour and possibilities. Most men who, either from choice or
necessity, have knocked about the world for any length of time
are more or less fatalists. Jimmy was an optimistic fatalist. He had
always looked on fate not as a blind dispenser at random of gifts
good and bad, but rather as a benevolent being with a pleasing
bias in his favour. He had almost a Napoleonic faith in his star.
At various periods of his life—notably at the time when, as he had
told Lord Dreever, he had breakfasted on birdseed—he had been
in uncommonly tight corners, but his luck had always extricated
him. It struck him that it would be an unthinkable piece of bad
sportsmanship on Fate’s part to see him through so much and then
to abandon him just as he had arrived in sight of what was by far
the biggest thing of his life. Of course, his view of what constituted
the biggest thing in life had changed with the years.
Every ridge of the Hill of Supreme Moments in turn had been
mistaken by him for the summit; but this last, he felt instinctively,
was genuine. For good or bad, Molly was woven into the texture
of his life. In the stormy period of the early twenties he had
thought the same of other girls, who were now mere memories as
dim as those of figures in a half-forgotten play. In their case his
convalescence had been temporarily painful, but brief. Force of
will and an active life had worked the cure. He had merely braced
himself up and firmly ejected them from his mind. A week or two
of aching emptiness, and his heart had been once more in readiness—all
nicely swept and done up—for the next lodger.</p>
<p>But in the case of Molly it was different. He had passed the age
of instantaneous susceptibility. Like a landlord who had been
cheated by previous tenants, he had become wary. He mistrusted
his powers of recuperation in case of disaster. The will in these
matters, just like the mundane “bouncer”, gets past his work.
For some years now Jimmy had had a feeling that the next
<span class="pb" id="Page_83">83</span>
arrival would come to stay, and he had adopted, in consequence,
a gently defensive attitude towards the other sex. Molly had
broken through this, and he saw that his estimate of his willpower
had been just. Methods which had proved excellent in the
past were useless now. There was no trace here of that dimly-consoling
feeling of earlier years that there were other girls in the
world. He did not try to deceive himself. He knew that he had
passed the age when a man can fall in love with any one of a
number of types.</p>
<p>This was the finish, one way or the other. There was no second
throw. She had him. However it might end, he belonged to her.</p>
<p>There are few moments in a man’s day when his brain is more
contemplative than during that brief space when he is lathering
his face preparatory to shaving. Flying the brush, Jimmy reviewed
the situation. He was perhaps a little too optimistic. Not unnaturally
he was inclined to look upon his luck as a sort of special
train which would convey him without effort to Paradise. Fate
had behaved so exceedingly handsomely up till now. By a series of
the most workmanlike miracles it had brought him to the point of
being Molly’s fellow-guest at a country-house. This, as Reason
coldly pointed out a few moments later, was merely the beginning;
but to Jimmy, thoughtfully lathering, it seemed the end. It was
only when he had finished shaving and was arranging his tie that
he began to perceive that there were obstacles in his way—and
sufficiently big obstacles at that.</p>
<p>In the first place, Molly did not love him. And, he was bound
to admit, there was no earthly reason why she ever should. A man
in love is seldom vain about his personal attractions. Also, her
father firmly believed him to be a master-burglar.</p>
<p>“Otherwise,” said Jimmy, scowling at his reflection in the
glass, “everything’s splendid.”</p>
<p>He brushed his hair sadly.</p>
<p>There was a furtive rap at the door.</p>
<p>“Halloa?” said Jimmy. “Yes?”</p>
<p>The door opened slowly. A grin, surmounted by a mop of red
hair, appeared round the edge of it.</p>
<p>“Halloa, Spike! Come in. What’s the matter?”</p>
<p>The rest of Mr. Mullins entered the room.</p>
<p>“Gee, boss, I wasn’t sure dis was your room. Say, who do you
t’ink I nearly bumped me coco against out in de corridor downstairs?
Why, old man McEachern, de cop. Dat’s right!”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_84">84</div>
<p>“Yes?”</p>
<p>“Sure. Say, what’s he doin’ on dis beat? I pretty near went
down and out when I seen him. Dat’s right. Me breath ain’t got
back home yet.”</p>
<p>“Did he recognise you?”</p>
<p>“Did he! He starts like an actor on top de stoige when he sees
he’s up against de plot to ruin him, an’ he gives me de fierce eye.”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“I was wondering was I on Third Avenue, or was I standing on
me coco, or what was I doin’ anyhow. Den I slips off and chases
meself up here. Say, boss, what’s de game? What’s old man
McEachern doin’ stunts dis side for?”</p>
<p>“It’s all right, Spike. Keep calm. I can explain. He has retired—like
me. He’s one of the handsome guests here.”</p>
<p>“On your way, boss! What’s dat?”</p>
<p>“He left the Force just after that merry meeting of ours when
you frolicked with the bulldog. He came over here and butted into
society. So here we are again, all gathered together under the
same roof, like a jolly little family party.”</p>
<p>Spike’s open mouth bore witness to his amazement.</p>
<p>“Den——” he stammered.</p>
<p>“Yes?”</p>
<p>“Den what’s he goin’ to do?”</p>
<p>“I couldn’t say. I’m expecting to hear shortly. But we needn’t
worry ourselves. The next move’s with him. If he wants to comment
on the situation he won’t be backward. He’ll come and do
it.”</p>
<p>“Sure. It’s up to him,” agreed Spike.</p>
<p>“I’m quite comfortable. Speaking for myself, I’m having a good
time. How are you getting along downstairs?”</p>
<p>“De limit, boss. Honest, it’s to de velvet. Dere’s old gazebo, de
butler, Saunders his name is, dat’s de best ever at handing out
long woids. I sits and listens. Dey calls me Mr. Mullins down
dere,” said Spike with pride.</p>
<p>“Good. I’m glad you’re all right. There’s no reason why we
shouldn’t have an excellent time here. I don’t think that Mr.
McEachern will try to have us turned out, after he’s heard one or
two little things I have to say to him—just a few reminiscences of
the past which may interest him. I have the greatest affection for
Mr. McEachern—I wish it was mutual—but nothing he can say
is going to make me stir from here.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_85">85</div>
<p>“Not on your life,” agreed Spike. “Say, boss, he must have got
a lot of plunks to be able to butt in here. And I know how he got
dem, too. Dat’s right. I comes from little old New York meself.”</p>
<p>“Hush, Spike; this is scandal!”</p>
<p>“Sure!” said the Bowery boy, doggedly, safely started now on
his favourite subject. “I knows, and youse knows, boss. Gee! I
wish I’d bin a cop. But I wasn’t tall enough. Dey’s de fellers wit de
big bank-rolls! Look at dis old McEachern. Money to boin a wet
dog wit he’s got, and never a bit of woik for it from de start to de
finish. An’ look at me, boss.”</p>
<p>“I do, Spike; I do.”</p>
<p>“Look at me. Getting busy all de year round, woiking to beat
de band——”</p>
<p>“In prisons oft,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Sure t’ing. And chased all roun’ de town. And den what? Why,
to de bad at de end of it all. Say, it’s enough to make a feller——”</p>
<p>“Turn honest!” said Jimmy. “That’s it, Spike—reform. You’ll
be glad some day.”</p>
<p>Spike seemed to be doubtful. He was silent for a moment;
then, as if following up a train of thought, he said:</p>
<p>“Boss, dis is a fine big house.”</p>
<p>“I’ve seen worse.”</p>
<p>“Say, couldn’t we——?”</p>
<p>“Spike!” said Jimmy warningly.</p>
<p>“Well, couldn’t we?” said Spike doggedly. “It ain’t often
youse butts into a dead easy proposition like dis one. We shouldn’t
have to do a t’ing excep’ git busy. De stuff’s just lying about,
boss.”</p>
<p>“I shouldn’t wonder.”</p>
<p>“Aw, it’s a waste to leave it.”</p>
<p>“Spike,” said Jimmy. “I warned you of this. I begged you to be
on your guard, to fight against your professional instincts. Be a
man! Crush them. Try to occupy your mind. Collect butterflies.”</p>
<p>Spike shuffled in gloomy silence.</p>
<p>“’Member dose jools you swiped from de Duchess?” he said,
musingly.</p>
<p>“The dear Duchess!” murmured Jimmy. “Ah, me!”</p>
<p>“And de bank you busted?”</p>
<p>“Those were happy days, Spike.”</p>
<p>“Gee!” said the Bowery boy.</p>
<p>He paused. “Dat was to de good,” he said wistfully.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_86">86</div>
<p>Jimmy arranged his tie at the mirror.</p>
<p>“Dere’s a loidy here,” continued Spike, addressing the chest of
drawers, “dat’s got a necklace of jools what’s worth a hundred
t’ousand plunks. Honest, boss—a hundred t’ousand plunks.
Saunders told me that—de old gazebo dat hands out de long
woids. I says to him ‘Gee!’ and he says, ‘Surest t’ing you know.’
A hundred t’ousand plunks!”</p>
<p>“So I understand,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Shall I rubber around and find out where is dey kept, boss?”</p>
<p>“Spike,” said Jimmy, “ask me no more. All this is in direct
contravention of our treaty respecting keeping our fingers off the
spoons. You pain me. Desist.”</p>
<p>“Sorry, boss. But dey’ll be willy-wonders, dem jools. A hundred
t’ousand plunks! Dat’s going some, ain’t it? What’s dat dis side?”</p>
<p>“Twenty thousand pounds.”</p>
<p>“Gee! Can I help you wit de duds, boss?”</p>
<p>“No, thanks, Spike. I’m through now. You might just give me
a brush down, though. No, not that. That’s a hair-brush. Try the
big black one.”</p>
<p>“Dis is a boid of a dude suit,” observed Spike, pausing in his
labours.</p>
<p>“Glad you like it, Spike. Rather <i>chic</i>, I think.”</p>
<p>“It’s de limit. Excuse me, how much did it set you back, boss?”</p>
<p>“Something like twelve guineas, I believe. I could look up the
bill and let you know.”</p>
<p>“What’s dat—guineas? Is that more dan a pound?”</p>
<p>“A shilling more. Why these higher mathematics?”</p>
<p>Spike resumed his brushing.</p>
<p>“What a lot of dude suits youse could get,” he observed meditatively,
“if you had dem jools.” He became suddenly animated.
He waved the clothes-brush. “Oh, you boss!” he cried. “What’s
eatin’ you? Aw, it’s a shame not to. Come along, you boss. Say,
what’s doin’? Why ain’t you sittin’ in at de game? Oh, you boss!”</p>
<p>Whatever reply Jimmy might have made to this impassioned
appeal was checked by a sudden bang on the door. Almost
immediately the handle turned.</p>
<p>“Gee!” cried Spike. “It’s de cop.”</p>
<p>Jimmy smiled pleasantly.</p>
<p>“Come in, Mr. McEachern,” he said, “come in. Journeys end
in lovers meeting. You know my friend Mr. Mullins, I think?
Shut the door and sit down, and let’s talk of many things.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_87">87</div>
<h2 id="c14"><span class="small">★ 14 ★</span>
<br /><i>Check, and a Counter Move</i></h2>
<p>Mr. McEachern stood in the doorway, breathing heavily. As
the result of a long connection with evildoers, the ex-policeman
was somewhat prone to harbour suspicions of those
round about him, and at the present moment his mind was
aflame. Indeed, a more trusting man might have been excused
for feeling a little doubtful as to the intentions of Jimmy and
Spike. When McEachern had heard that Lord Dreever had
brought home a casual London acquaintance, he had suspected
as a possible drawback to the visit the existence of hidden motives
on the part of the unknown. Lord Dreever, he had felt, was
precisely the sort of youth to whom the professional bunco-steerer
would attach himself with shouts of joy. Never, he had
assured himself, had there been a softer proposition than his
lordship since bunco-steering became a profession.</p>
<p>When he found that the strange visitor was Jimmy Pitt, his
suspicions had increased a thousandfold.</p>
<p>And when, going to his room to get ready for dinner, he had
nearly run into Spike Mullins in the corridor, his frame of mind
had been that of a man to whom a sudden ray of light reveals the
fact that he is on the brink of a black precipice. Jimmy and Spike
had burgled his house together in New York; and here they were,
together again, at Dreever Castle. To say that the thing struck
McEachern as sinister is to put the matter badly. There was once
a gentleman who remarked that he smelt a rat and saw it floating
in the air. Ex-Constable McEachern smelt a regiment of rats,
and the air seemed to him positively congested with them.</p>
<p>His first impulse had been to rush to Jimmy’s room there and
then; but he had learned society’s lessons well. Though the
heavens might fall, he must not be late for dinner, so he went and
dressed, and an obstinate tie put the finishing touches to his
wrath.</p>
<p>Jimmy regarded him coolly, without moving from the chair in
which he had seated himself. Spike, on the other hand, seemed
<span class="pb" id="Page_88">88</span>
embarrassed; he stood first on one leg and then on the other, as if
he were testing the respective merits of each and would make
a definite choice later on.</p>
<p>“You scoundrels!” growled McEachern.</p>
<p>Spike, who had been standing for a few moments on his right
leg, and seemed at last to have come to a decision, hastily changed
to the left, and grinned feebly.</p>
<p>“Say, youse won’t want me any more, boss?” he whispered.</p>
<p>“No; you can go, Spike.”</p>
<p>“You stay where you are, you red-headed devil!” said
McEachern tartly.</p>
<p>“Run along, Spike,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>The Bowery boy looked doubtfully at the huge form of the ex-policeman,
which blocked access to the door.</p>
<p>“Would you mind letting my man pass?” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“You stay——” began McEachern.</p>
<p>Jimmy got up and walked round him to the door, which he
opened. Spike shot out like a rabbit released from a trap. He was
not lacking in courage, but he disliked embarrassing interviews,
and it struck him that Jimmy was the man to handle a situation of
this kind. He felt that he himself would only be in the way.</p>
<p>“Now we can talk comfortably,” said Jimmy, going back to his
chair.</p>
<p>McEachern’s deep-set eyes gleamed and his forehead grew red,
but he mastered his feelings.</p>
<p>“And now——” he said.</p>
<p>He stopped.</p>
<p>“Yes?” asked Jimmy.</p>
<p>“What are you doing here?”</p>
<p>“Nothing at the moment.”</p>
<p>“You know what I mean. Why are you here—you and that
red-headed devil, Spike Mullins?”</p>
<p>He jerked his head in the direction of the door.</p>
<p>“I am here because I was very kindly invited to come by Lord
Dreever.”</p>
<p>“I know you.”</p>
<p>“You have that privilege. Seeing we only met once, it’s very
good of you to remember me.”</p>
<p>“What’s your game? What do you mean to do?”</p>
<p>“To do? Well, I shall potter about the garden, you know, and
shoot a bit, perhaps, and look at the horses, and think of life, and
<span class="pb" id="Page_89">89</span>
feed the chickens— I suppose there are chickens somewhere about—and
possibly go for an occasional row on the lake. Nothing
more. Oh, yes, I believe they want me to act in some theatricals.”</p>
<p>“You’ll miss those theatricals. You’ll leave here to-morrow.”</p>
<p>“To-morrow? But I’ve only just arrived, dear heart.”</p>
<p>“I don’t care about that. Out you go to-morrow. I’ll give you
till to-morrow.”</p>
<p>“I congratulate you,” said Jimmy. “One of the oldest houses in
England.”</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>“I gathered from what you said that you had bought the castle.
Isn’t that so? If it still belongs to Lord Dreever, don’t you think
you ought to consult him before revising his list of guests?”</p>
<p>McEachern looked at him steadily. His manner became quieter.</p>
<p>“Oh! you take that tone, do you?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know what you mean by ‘that tone’. What tone would
you take if a comparative stranger ordered you to leave another
man’s house?”</p>
<p>McEachern’s massive jaw protruded truculently in the manner
which had scared good behaviour into brawling East Siders.</p>
<p>“I know your sort,” he said. “I’ll call your bluff. And you won’t
get till to-morrow, either—it’ll be now.”</p>
<p>“‘Why should we wait for the morrow? You are queen of my
heart to-night,’” murmured Jimmy encouragingly.</p>
<p>“I’ll expose you before them all. I’ll tell them everything.”</p>
<p>Jimmy shook his head.</p>
<p>“Too melodramatic,” he said. “Sort of ‘I call on Heaven to
judge between this man and me’ kind of thing. I shouldn’t.
What do you propose to tell, anyway?”</p>
<p>“Will you deny that you were a crook in New York?”</p>
<p>“I will. I was nothing of the kind.”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“If you’ll listen, I can explain.”</p>
<p>“Explain!” The other’s voice rose again. “You talk about
explaining, you scum, when I caught you in my own parlour at
three in the morning, you——”</p>
<p>The smile faded from Jimmy’s face.</p>
<p>“Half a minute,” he said.</p>
<p>It might be that the ideal course would be to let the storm
expend itself and then to explain quietly the whole matter of
Arthur Mifflin and the bet which had led to his one excursion into
<span class="pb" id="Page_90">90</span>
burglary. But he doubted it. Things—including his temper—had
got beyond the stage of quiet explanations. McEachern would
most certainly disbelieve his story. What would happen after that
he did not know. A scene, probably—a melodramatic denunciation,
at the worst, before the other guests; at the best, before Sir
Thomas alone. He saw nothing but chaos beyond that. His story
was thin to a degree, unless backed by witnesses, and his witnesses
were three thousand miles away. Worse, he had not been alone in
the policeman’s parlour. A man who is burgling a house for a bet
does not usually do it in the company of a professional burglar
well known to the police.</p>
<p>No; quiet explanations must be postponed. They could do no
good, and would probably lead to his spending the night and the
next few nights at the local police-station. And even if he were
spared that fate, it was certain that he would have to leave the
castle.</p>
<p>Leave the castle and Molly! He jumped up. The thought had
stung him.</p>
<p>“One moment,” he said.</p>
<p>McEachern stopped.</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“You’re going to tell them that?” asked Jimmy.</p>
<p>“I am.”</p>
<p>“Are you also going to tell them why you didn’t have me
arrested that night?” he said.</p>
<p>McEachern started. Jimmy planted himself in front of him and
glared up into his face. It would have been hard to say which of
the two was the angrier. The policeman was flushed, and the
veins stood out on his forehead. Jimmy was in a white heat of
rage. He had turned very pale, and his muscles were quivering.
Jimmy in this mood had once cleared a Los Angeles bar-room
with the leg of a chair in the space of two and a quarter minutes
by the clock.</p>
<p>“Are you?” he demanded. “Are you?”</p>
<p>McEachern’s hand, hanging at his side, lifted itself hesitatingly.
The fingers brushed against Jimmy’s shoulder. Jimmy’s lips
twitched.</p>
<p>“Yes,” he said, “do it! Do it, and see what happens! By God!
if you put a hand on me I’ll finish you. Do you think you can
bully me? Do you think I care for your size?”</p>
<p>McEachern dropped his hand. For the first time in his life he
<span class="pb" id="Page_91">91</span>
had met a man who, instinct told him, was his match and more.
He stepped back a pace.</p>
<p>Jimmy put his hands in his pockets and turned away. He
walked to the mantelpiece and leaned his back against it.</p>
<p>“You haven’t answered my question,” he said. “Perhaps you
can’t!”</p>
<p>McEachern was wiping his forehead and breathing quickly.</p>
<p>“If you like,” said Jimmy, “we’ll go down to the drawing-room
now, and you shall tell your story and I’ll tell mine. I wonder
which they will think the more interesting? Damn you!” he went
on, his anger rising once more, “what do you mean by it? You
come into my room and bluster and talk big about exposing
crooks. What do you call yourself, I wonder? Do you realise what
you are? Why, poor Spike’s an angel compared with you! He did
take chances. He wasn’t in a position of trust. You——”</p>
<p>He stopped.</p>
<p>“Hadn’t you better get out of here, don’t you think?” he said
curtly.</p>
<p>Without a word McEachern walked to the door and went
out.</p>
<p>Jimmy dropped into a chair with a deep breath. He took up his
cigarette-case, but before he could light a match the gong sounded
from the distance.</p>
<p>He rose and laughed rather shakily. He felt limp. “As an effort
to conciliating papa,” he said, “I’m afraid that wasn’t much of a
success.”</p>
<p>It was not often that Mr. McEachern was visited by ideas—he
ran rather to muscle than to brain—but he had one that evening
during dinner. His interview with Jimmy had left him furious, but
baffled. He knew that his hands were tied. Frontal attack was
useless; to drive Jimmy from the castle would be out of the
question. All that could be done was to watch him while he was
there, for he had never been more convinced of anything in his
life than that Jimmy had wormed his way into the house-party
with felonious intent. The appearance of Lady Julia at dinner
wearing the famous rope of diamonds supplied an obvious
motive. The necklace had an international reputation. Probably
there was not a prominent thief in England or on the Continent
who had not marked it down as a possible prey. It had already
been tried for once. It was big game—just the sort of lure which
would draw the type of criminal he imagined Jimmy to be.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_92">92</div>
<p>From his seat at the farther end of the table he looked at the
jewels as they gleamed on their wearer’s neck. They were almost
too ostentatious for what was, after all, an informal dinner. It was
not a rope of diamonds—it was a collar. There was something
Oriental and barbaric in the overwhelming display of jewellery.
It was a prize for which a thief would risk much.</p>
<p>The conversation becoming general with the fish, was not of a
kind to remove from his mind the impression made by the sight
of the gems. It turned on burglary. Lord Dreever began it.</p>
<p>“Oh, I say,” he said. “I forgot to tell you, Aunt Julia; No. 6
was burgled the other night.”</p>
<p>No. 6<span class="sc">A</span> Eaton Square was the family’s London house.</p>
<p>“Burgled!” said Sir Thomas.</p>
<p>“Well, broken into,” said his lordship, gratified to find that he
had got the ear of his entire audience. Even Lady Julia was silent
and attentive. “Chap got through the scullery window about one
o’clock in the morning.”</p>
<p>“And what did you do?” inquired Sir Thomas.</p>
<p>“Oh, I—er— I was out at the time,” said Lord Dreever. “But
something frightened the feller,” he went on hurriedly, “and he
made a bolt for it without taking anything.”</p>
<p>“Burglary,” said a young man whom Jimmy subsequently
discovered to be the drama-loving Charteris, leaning back and
taking advantage of a pause, “is the hobby of the sportsman and
the life-work of the avaricious.”</p>
<p>He took a little pencil from his waistcoat pocket and made a
rapid note on his cuff.</p>
<p>Everybody seemed to have something to say on the subject.
One young lady gave it as her opinion that she would not like to
find a burglar under her bed. Somebody also had heard of a
fellow whose father had fired at the butler under the impression
that he was a house-breaker, and had broken a valuable bust of
Socrates. Lord Dreever had known a man at college whose
brother wrote lyrics for musical comedy, and had done one about
a burglar’s best friend being his mother.</p>
<p>“Life,” said Charteris, who had had time for reflection, “is a
house which we all burgle. We enter it uninvited, take all that we
can lay hands on, and go out again.”</p>
<p>He scribbled “Life—house—burgle” on his cuff and replaced
the pencil.</p>
<p>“This man’s brother I was telling you about,” said Lord
<span class="pb" id="Page_93">93</span>
Dreever, “says there’s only one rhyme in the English language to
‘burglar,’ and that’s ‘gurgler’—unless you count ‘pergola.’ He
says——”</p>
<p>“Personally,” said Jimmy, with a glance at McEachern, “I
have rather a sympathy for burglars. After all, they are one of the
hardest-working classes in existence. They toil while everybody
else is asleep. Besides, a burglar is only a practical Socialist.
People talk a lot about the redistribution of wealth. The burglar
goes out and does it. I have found burglars some of the decentest
criminals I have ever met.”</p>
<p>“I despise burglars!” ejaculated Lady Julia, with a suddenness
which stopped Jimmy’s eloquence as if a tap had been turned off.
“If I found one coming after my jewels and I had a pistol I’d
shoot him.”</p>
<p>Jimmy met McEachern’s eye, and smiled kindly at him. The
ex-policeman was looking at him with the gaze of a baffled but
malignant basilisk.</p>
<p>“I take very good care no one gets a chance at your diamonds,
my dear,” said Sir Thomas, without a blush. “I have had a steel
box made for me,” he added to the company in general, “with a
special lock—a very ingenious arrangement, quite unbreakable, I
imagine.”</p>
<p>Jimmy, with Molly’s story fresh in his mind, could not check a
rapid smile. Mr. McEachern, watching him intently, saw it. To
him it was fresh evidence, if any had been wanted, of Jimmy’s
intentions, and of his confidence of success. McEachern’s brow
darkened. During the rest of the meal tense thought rendered him
more silent even than was his wont at the dinner-table. The
difficulty of his position was, he saw, great. Jimmy, to be foiled,
must be watched, and how could he watch him?</p>
<p>It was not until the coffee arrived that he found an answer to the
question. With his first cigarette came the idea. That night, in his
room, before going to bed, he wrote a letter. It was an unusual
letter, but singularly enough, almost identical with one Sir
Thomas Blunt had written that very morning.</p>
<p>It was addressed to the Manager of Dodson’s Private Inquiry
Agency, of Bishopsgate Street, E.C., and ran as follows:</p>
<p>“<span class="sc">Sir</span>,— On receipt of this, kindly send down one of your
smartest men. Instruct him to stay at the village inn in the character
of American seeing sights of England and anxious to
inspect Dreever Castle. I will meet him in the village and recognise
<span class="pb" id="Page_94">94</span>
him as old New York friend, and will then give him further
instructions.— Yours faithfully, <span class="sc">J. McEachern</span>.</p>
<p>“P.S.— Kindly not send a rube, but a really smart man.”</p>
<p>This brief but pregnant letter cost him some pains in its
composition. He was not a ready writer, but he completed it at
last to his satisfaction. There was a crisp purity in the style which
pleased him. He sealed up the envelope and slipped it into his
pocket. He felt more at ease now. Such was the friendship that
had sprung up between Sir Thomas Blunt and himself as the
result of the jewel episode in Paris that he could count with
certainty on the successful working of his scheme. The grateful
knight would not be likely to allow any old New York friend of his
preserver to languish at the village inn. The sleuth-hound would
at once be installed at the castle, where, unsuspected by Jimmy,
he would keep an eye on the course of events. Any looking after
that Mr. James Pitt might require might safely be left in the hands
of this expert.</p>
<p>With considerable fervour Mr. McEachern congratulated himself
on his astuteness. With Jimmy above stairs and Spike below,
the sleuth-hound would have his hands full.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_95">95</div>
<h2 id="c15"><span class="small">★ 15 ★</span>
<br /><i>Mr. McEachern Intervenes</i></h2>
<p>Life at the castle during the first few days of his visit filled
Jimmy with a curious blend of emotions, mainly unpleasant.
Fate, in its pro-Jimmy capacity, seemed to be taking a rest. In the
first place, the part allotted to him was not that of Lord Herbert,
the character who talked to Molly most of the time. The instant
Charteris learned from Lord Dreever that Jimmy had at one
time actually been on the stage professionally, he decided that
Lord Herbert offered too little scope for the new man’s talents.</p>
<p>“Absolutely no good to you, my dear chap,” he said. “It’s just a
small dude part. He’s simply got to be a silly ass.”</p>
<p>Jimmy pleaded that he could be a sillier ass than anybody
living; but Charteris was firm.</p>
<p>“No,” he said. “You must be Captain Browne—true acting
part, the biggest in the piece, full of fat lines. Spennie was to
have played it, and we were in for the worst frost in the history of
the stage. Now you’ve come it’s all right. Spennie’s the ideal of
Lord Herbert. He’s simply got to be himself. We’ve got a success
now, my boy. Rehearsal after lunch. Don’t be late.”</p>
<p>And he had gone off to beat up the rest of the company.</p>
<p>From that moment Jimmy’s troubles began. Charteris was a
young man in whom a passion for the stage was ineradicably
implanted. It mattered nothing to him during these days that the
sun shone, that it was pleasant on the lake, and that Jimmy
would have given five pounds a minute to be allowed to get
Molly to himself for half an hour every afternoon. All he knew or
cared about was that the local nobility and gentry were due to
arrive at the castle a week from that day, and that very few of the
company even knew their lines. Having hustled Jimmy into the
part of Captain Browne, he gave his energy free play. He conducted
rehearsals with a vigour which occasionally almost
welded the rabble he was coaching into something approaching
coherency. He painted scenery and left it about—wet—and
people sat on it; he nailed up horseshoes for luck, and they
<span class="pb" id="Page_96">96</span>
fell on people. But nothing daunted him; he never rested.</p>
<p>“Mr. Charteris,” said Lady Julia rather frigidly, after one
energetic rehearsal, “is indefatigable. He whirled me about!”</p>
<p>It was, perhaps, his greatest triumph, properly considered, that
he had induced Lady Julia to take a part in his piece; but to the
born organiser of amateur theatricals no miracle of this kind is
impossible, and Charteris was one of the most inveterate organisers
in the country. There had been some talk—late at night in the
billiard-room—of his being about to write in a comic footman
<i>role</i> for Sir Thomas, but it had fallen through; not, it was felt,
because Charteris could not have hypnotised him into undertaking
it, but rather because Sir Thomas was histrionically unfit.</p>
<p>Mainly as a result of the producer’s energy Jimmy found himself
one of a crowd, and disliked the sensation. He had not experienced
much difficulty in mastering the scenes in which he
appeared; but unfortunately those who appeared with him had.
It occurred to Jimmy daily, after he had finished “running
through the lines” with a series of agitated amateurs, male and
female, that for all practical purposes he might just as well have
gone to Japan. In this confused welter of rehearsers his opportunities
of talking with Molly were infinitesimal. And worse,
she did not appear to mind. She was cheerful, and apparently
quite content to be engulfed in a crowd. Probably, he thought
with some melancholy, if she met his eye, and noted in it a distracted
gleam, she put it down to the same cause which made
other eyes in the company gleam distractedly during that week.</p>
<p>Jimmy began to take a thoroughly jaundiced view of amateur
theatricals, and of these amateur theatricals in particular. He felt
that in the electric flame department of the infernal regions there
should be a special gridiron, reserved exclusively for the man who
invented these performances, so diametrically opposed to the
true spirit of civilisation. At the close of each day he cursed
Charteris with unfailing regularity.</p>
<p>There was another thing that disturbed him. That he should be
unable to talk with Molly was an evil, but a negative evil. It was
supplemented by one that was positive. Even in the midst of the
chaos of rehearsals he could not help noticing that Molly and
Lord Dreever were very much together. Also—and this was even
more sinister—he observed that both Sir Thomas Blunt and Mr.
McEachern were making determined efforts to foster this state of
affairs.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_97">97</div>
<p>Of this he had sufficient proof one evening when, after scheming
and plotting in a way that had made the great efforts of
Machiavelli and Richelieu seem like the work of raw novices, he
had cut Molly out from the throng and carried her off for the
alleged purpose of helping him feed the chickens. There were, as
he had suspected, chickens attached to the castle. They lived in a
little world of noise and smells at the back of the stables. Bearing
an iron pot full of a poisonous-looking mash, and accompanied by
Molly, he had felt, for perhaps a minute and a half, like a successful
general. It is difficult to be romantic when you are laden
with chicken-feed in an unwieldy iron pot, but he had resolved
that that portion of the proceedings should be brief—the birds
should dine that evening on the quick-lunch principle—then to
the more fitting surroundings of the rose-garden. There was
plenty of time before the hour of the sounding of the dressing-gong.
Perhaps even a row on the lake——</p>
<p>“What-ho!” said a voice.</p>
<p>Behind them, with a propitiatory smile on his face, stood his
lordship of Dreever.</p>
<p>“My uncle told me I should find you out here. What have you
got there, Pitt? Is this what you feed them on? I say, you know,
queer coves, hens! I wouldn’t touch the stuff for a fortune. What?
Looks to me poisonous.”</p>
<p>He met Jimmy’s eye and stopped. There was that in Jimmy’s
eye that would have stopped an avalanche. His lordship twiddled
his fingers in pink embarrassment.</p>
<p>“Oh, look!” said Molly. “There’s a poor little chicken out there
in the cold. It hasn’t had a morsel. Give me the spoon, Mr. Pitt.
Here, chick, chick! Don’t be silly, I’m not going to hurt you. I’ve
brought you your dinner.”</p>
<p>She moved off in pursuit of the solitary fowl, which had edged
nervously away. Lord Dreever bent towards Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Frightfully sorry, Pitt, old man,” he whispered feverishly.
“Didn’t want to come. Couldn’t help it. He sent me out.” He half
looked over his shoulder. “And,” he added rapidly, as Molly came
back, “the old boy’s at his bedroom window now, watching us
through his opera-glasses!”</p>
<p>The return journey to the house was performed in silence—on
Jimmy’s part in thoughtful silence. He thought hard, and had
been thinking ever since.</p>
<p>He had material for thought. That Lord Dreever was as clay in
<span class="pb" id="Page_98">98</span>
his uncle’s hands he was aware. He had not known his lordship
long, but he had known him long enough to realise that a backbone
had been carelessly omitted from his composition. What his
uncle directed that would he do. The situation looked bad to
Jimmy. The order, he knew, had gone out that Lord Dreever was
to marry money, and Molly was an heiress. He did not know how
much Mr. McEachern had amassed in his dealings with New
York crime, but it could not but be something considerable.
Things looked black.</p>
<p>Then he had a reaction. He was taking too much for granted.
Lord Dreever might be hounded into proposing to Molly, but
what earthly reason was there for supposing that Molly would
accept him? He declined even for an instant to look upon Spennie’s
title in the light of a lure. Molly was not the girl to marry for
a title. He endeavoured to examine impartially his lordship’s
other claims. He was a pleasant fellow, with—to judge on short
acquaintanceship—an undeniably amiable disposition. That
much must be conceded. But against this must be placed the
equally undeniable fact that he was also, as he would have put it
himself, a most frightful ass. He was weak. He had no character.
Altogether, the examination made Jimmy more cheerful. He
could not see the light-haired one, even with Sir Thomas Blunt
shoving behind, as it were, accomplishing the knight’s ends.
Shove he never so wisely, Sir Thomas could never make a Romeo
out of Spennie Dreever.</p>
<p>It was while sitting in the billiard-room one night after dinner,
watching his rival play a hundred up with the silent Hargate, that
Jimmy came definitely to this conclusion. He had stopped to
watch more because he wished to study his man at close range
than because the game was anything out of the common as an
exposition of billiards. As a matter of fact, it would have been
hard to imagine a worse game. Lord Dreever, who was conceding
twenty, was poor, and his opponent an obvious beginner. Again,
as he looked on, Jimmy was possessed of an idea that he had met
Hargate before. But once more he searched his memory and
drew blank. He did not give the thing much thought, being intent
on his diagnosis of Lord Dreever, who, by a fluky series of
cannons, had wobbled into the forties, and was now a few points
ahead of his opponent.</p>
<p>Presently, having summed his lordship up to his satisfaction,
and grown bored with the game, Jimmy strolled out of the room.
<span class="pb" id="Page_99">99</span>
He paused outside the door for a moment, wondering what to do.
There was bridge in the smoking-room, but he did not feel
inclined for bridge. From the drawing-room there came sounds of
music. He turned in that direction, then stopped again. He came
to the conclusion that he did not feel sociable. He wanted to
think. A cigar on the terrace would meet his needs.</p>
<p>He went up to his room for his cigar-case. The window was
open. He leaned out. There was almost a full moon, and it was
very light out of doors. His eye was caught by a movement at the
farther end of the terrace, where the shadow was. A girl came
out of the shadow, walking slowly....</p>
<p>Not since early boyhood had Jimmy descended stairs with such
a rare burst of speed. He negotiated the nasty turn at the end of
the first flight at quite a suicidal pace. Fate, however, had apparently
wakened up again and resumed business, for he did not
break his neck. A few moments later he was out on the terrace,
bearing a cloak which he had snatched up <i>en route</i> in the hall.</p>
<p>“I thought you might be cold,” he said, breathing quickly.</p>
<p>“Oh, thank you,” said Molly. “How kind of you!” He put it
round her shoulders. “Have you been running?”</p>
<p>“I came downstairs rather fast.”</p>
<p>“Were you afraid the boogaboos would get you?” she laughed.
“I was thinking of when I was a small child. I was always afraid
of them. I used to race downstairs when I had to go to my room
in the dark, unless I could persuade some one to hold my hand all
the way there and back.”</p>
<p>Her spirits had risen with Jimmy’s arrival. Things had been
happening that worried her. She had gone out onto the terrace to
be alone. When she heard his footsteps she had dreaded the
advent of some garrulous fellow-guest, full of small talk. Jimmy,
somehow, was a comfort—he did not disturb the atmosphere.
Little as they had seen of each other, something in him—she
could not say what—had drawn her to him. He was a man, she
felt instinctively, she could trust.</p>
<p>They walked on in silence. Words were pouring into Jimmy’s
mind, but he could not frame them. He seemed to have lost the
power of coherent thought.</p>
<p>Molly said nothing. It was not a night for conversation. The
moon had turned terrace and garden into a fairyland of black and
silver. It was a night to look and listen and think.</p>
<p>They walked slowly up and down. As they turned for the second
<span class="pb" id="Page_100">100</span>
time Molly’s thoughts formed themselves into a question. Twice
she was on the point of asking it, but each time she checked herself.
It was an impossible question. She had no right to put it,
and he had no right to answer. Yet something was driving her on
to ask it.</p>
<p>It came out suddenly, without warning.</p>
<p>“Mr. Pitt, what do you think of Lord Dreever?”</p>
<p>Jimmy started. No question could have chimed in more aptly
with his thoughts. Even as she spoke he was struggling to keep
himself from asking her the same thing.</p>
<p>“Oh, I know I ought not to ask,” she went on. “He’s your host
and you’re his friend, I know. But——”</p>
<p>Her voice trailed off. The muscles of Jimmy’s back tightened
and quivered, but he could find no words.</p>
<p>“I wouldn’t ask any one else. But you’re—different somehow.
I don’t know what I mean—we hardly know each other—but——”</p>
<p>She stopped again, and still he was dumb.</p>
<p>“I feel so alone,” she said very quietly, almost to herself.
Something seemed to break in Jimmy’s head. His brain suddenly
cleared. He took a step forward.</p>
<p>A huge shadow blackened the white grass. Jimmy wheeled
round. It was McEachern.</p>
<p>“I have been looking for you, Molly, my dear. I thought you
must have gone to bed.”</p>
<p>He turned to Jimmy and addressed him for the first time since
their meeting in the bedroom.</p>
<p>“Will you excuse us, Mr. Pitt?”</p>
<p>Jimmy bowed and walked rapidly towards the house. At the
door he stopped and looked back. The two were standing where
he had left them.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_101">101</div>
<h2 id="c16"><span class="small">★ 16 ★</span>
<br /><i>A Marriage has been Arranged</i></h2>
<p>Neither Molly nor her father had moved or spoken while
Jimmy was covering the short strip of turf that ended at the
stone steps of the house. McEachern stood looking down at her
in grim silence. His great body against the dark mass of the castle
wall seemed larger than ever in the uncertain light. To Molly
there was something sinister and menacing in his attitude. She
found herself longing that Jimmy would come back. She was
frightened. Why, she could not have said. It was as if some instinct
told her that a crisis in her affairs had been reached, and
that she needed him. For the first time in her life she felt nervous
in her father’s company. Ever since she was a child she had been
accustomed to look upon him as her protector, but now she was
afraid.</p>
<p>“Father!” she cried.</p>
<p>“What are you doing out here?”</p>
<p>His voice was tense and strained.</p>
<p>“I came out because I wanted to think, father dear.”</p>
<p>She thought she knew his moods, but this was one that she
had never seen. It frightened her.</p>
<p>“Why did he come out here?”</p>
<p>“Mr. Pitt? He brought me a wrap.”</p>
<p>“What was he saying to you?”</p>
<p>The rain of questions gave Molly a sensation of being battered.
She felt dazed and a little mutinous. What had she done that she
should be assailed like this?</p>
<p>“He was saying nothing,” she said, rather shortly.</p>
<p>“Nothing! What do you mean? What was he saying? Tell me!”</p>
<p>Molly’s voice shook as she replied.</p>
<p>“He was saying nothing,” she repeated. “Do you think I’m not
telling you the truth, father? He had not spoken a word for ever
so long. We just walked up and down. I was thinking, and I
suppose he was, too. At any rate, he said nothing. I—I think you
might believe me.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_102">102</div>
<p>She began to cry quietly. Her father had never been like this
before. It hurt her.</p>
<p>McEachern’s manner changed in a flash. In the shock of
finding Jimmy and Molly together on the terrace he had forgotten
himself. He had had reason to be suspicious. Sir Thomas Blunt,
from whom he had just parted, had told him a certain piece of
news which had disturbed him. The discovery of Jimmy with
Molly had lent an added significance to that piece of news. He
saw that he had been rough. In a moment he was by her side, his
great arm round her shoulder, petting and comforting her as he
had done when she was a child. He believed her word without
question, and his relief made him very tender. Gradually the sobs
ceased. She leaned against his arm.</p>
<p>“I’m tired, father,” she whispered.</p>
<p>“Poor little girl. We’ll sit down.”</p>
<p>There was a seat at the end of the terrace. He picked her up as
if she had been a baby and carried her to it. She gave a little
cry.</p>
<p>“I didn’t mean I was too tired to walk,” she said, laughing
tremulously. “How strong you are, father! If I were naughty you
could take me up and shake me till I was good, couldn’t you?”</p>
<p>“Of course; and send you to bed, too, so you be careful, young
woman.”</p>
<p>He lowered her to the seat. Molly drew the cloak closer round
her and shivered.</p>
<p>“Cold, dear?”</p>
<p>“No.”</p>
<p>“You shivered.”</p>
<p>“It was nothing; yes, it was,” she went on quickly.</p>
<p>“It was. Father, will you promise me something?”</p>
<p>“Of course. What?”</p>
<p>“Don’t ever, ever be angry with me like that again, will you?
I couldn’t bear it—really I couldn’t. I know it’s stupid of me, but
it hurt. You don’t know how it hurt.”</p>
<p>“But my dear——”</p>
<p>“Oh, I know it’s stupid. But——”</p>
<p>“But, my darling, it wasn’t so. I was angry, but it wasn’t with
you.”</p>
<p>“With——. Were you angry with Mr. Pitt?”</p>
<p>McEachern saw that he had travelled too far. He had intended
that Jimmy’s existence should be forgotten for the time being—he
<span class="pb" id="Page_103">103</span>
had other things to discuss; but it was too late now. He must go
forward.</p>
<p>“I didn’t like to see you out here alone with Mr. Pitt, dear,” he
said. “I was afraid——”</p>
<p>He saw that he must go still farther forward. It was more than
awkward. He wished to hint at the undesirability of an entanglement
with Jimmy without admitting the possibility of it. Not being
a man of nimble brain, he found this somewhat beyond his powers.</p>
<p>“I don’t like him,” he said briefly. “He’s crooked.”</p>
<p>Molly’s eyes opened wide. The colour had gone from her face.</p>
<p>“Crooked, father?”</p>
<p>McEachern perceived that he had travelled very much too far,
almost to disaster. He longed to denounce Jimmy, but he was
gagged. If Molly were to ask the question that Jimmy had asked
in the bedroom—that fatal, unanswerable question! The price
was too great to pay.</p>
<p>He spoke cautiously, vaguely, feeling his way.</p>
<p>“I couldn’t explain to you, my dear—you wouldn’t understand.
You must remember, my dear, that out in New York I was in a
position to know a great many queer characters—crooks, Molly.
I was working among them.”</p>
<p>“But, father, that night at our house you didn’t know Mr. Pitt.
He had to tell you his name.”</p>
<p>“I didn’t know him—then,” said her father slowly; “but—but——”
He paused. “But I made inquiries,” he concluded,
with a rush, “and found out things.”</p>
<p>He permitted himself a long, silent breath of relief. He saw his
way now.</p>
<p>“Inquiries?” said Molly. “Why?”</p>
<p>“Why?”</p>
<p>“Why did you suspect him?”</p>
<p>A moment earlier the question might have confused McEachern,
but not now. He was equal to it. He took it in his stride.</p>
<p>“It’s hard to say, my dear. A man who has had as much to do
with crooks as I have recognises them when he sees them.”</p>
<p>“Did you think Mr. Pitt looked—looked like that?” Her voice
was very small. There was a drawn pinched expression on her
face. She was paler than ever.</p>
<p>He could not divine her thoughts. He could not know what his
words had done—how they had shown her in a flash what Jimmy
was to her, and lit up her mind like a flame, revealing the secret
<span class="pb" id="Page_104">104</span>
hidden there. She knew now. The feeling of comradeship, the
instinctive trust, the sense of dependence—they no longer perplexed
her. They were signs which she could read.</p>
<p>And he was crooked!</p>
<p>McEachern proceeded. Relief made him buoyant.</p>
<p>“I did, my dear. I can read him like a book. I’ve met scores of
his sort. Broadway is full of them. Good clothes and a pleasant
manner don’t make an honest man. I’ve run up against a mighty
high-toned bunch of crooks in my day. It’s a long time since I gave
up thinking that it was only the ones with the low foreheads and
the thick ears that needed watching. It’s the innocent Willies who
look as if all they could do was to lead the cotillon. This man
Pitt’s one of them. I’m not guessing, mind you—I know. I know
his line, and all about him. I’m watching him. He’s here on some
game. How did he get here? Why, he scraped acquaintance with
Lord Dreever in a London restaurant. It’s the commonest trick
on the list. If I hadn’t happened to be here when he came I
suppose he’d have made his haul by now. Why, he came all
prepared for it! Have you seen an ugly, grinning, red-headed
scoundrel hanging about the place? His valet, so he says. Valet!
Do you know who that is? That’s one of the most notorious
Yegg-men on the other side. There isn’t a policeman in New York
who doesn’t know Spike Mullins. Even if I knew nothing of this
Pitt that would be enough. What’s an innocent man going round
the country with Spike Mullins for, unless they are standing in
together at some game? That’s who Mr. Pitt is, my dear, and
that’s why, maybe, I seemed a little put out when I came upon
you and him out here alone together. See as little of him as you
can. In a large party like this it won’t be difficult to avoid him.”</p>
<p>Molly sat staring out across the garden. At first every word had
been a stab. Several times she had been on the point of crying
out that she could bear it no longer, but gradually a numbness
succeeded the pain. She found herself listening apathetically.</p>
<p>McEachern talked on. He left the subject of Jimmy, comfortably
conscious that, even if there had ever existed in Molly’s
heart any budding feeling of the kind he had suspected, it must
now be dead. He steered the conversation away until it ran easily
among commonplaces. He talked of New York, of the preparations
for the theatricals. Molly answered composedly. She was
still pale, and a certain listlessness in her manner might have been
noticed by a more observant man than Mr. McEachern. Beyond
<span class="pb" id="Page_105">105</span>
that there was nothing to show that her heart had been born and
killed but a few minutes before. Women have the Red Indian
instinct; and Molly had grown to womanhood in those few
minutes.</p>
<p>Presently Lord Dreever’s name came up.</p>
<p>It caused a momentary pause, and McEachern took advantage
of it. It was the cue for which he had been waiting.</p>
<p>He hesitated for a moment, for the conversation was about to
enter upon a difficult phase, and he was not quite sure of himself.</p>
<p>Then he took the plunge.</p>
<p>“I have just been talking to Sir Thomas, my dear,” he said.
He tried to speak casually, and as a natural result infused so much
meaning into his voice that Molly looked at him in surprise.
McEachern coughed confusedly. Diplomacy, he concluded, was
not his forte. He abandoned it in favour of directness.</p>
<p>“He was telling me that you had refused Lord Dreever this
evening.”</p>
<p>“Yes, I did,” said Molly. “How did Sir Thomas know?”</p>
<p>“Lord Dreever told him.”</p>
<p>Molly raised her eyebrows.</p>
<p>“I shouldn’t have thought it was the sort of thing he would talk
about,” she said.</p>
<p>“Sir Thomas is his uncle.”</p>
<p>“Of course. So he is,” said Molly dryly. “I forgot. That would
account for it, wouldn’t it?”</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern looked at her with some concern. There was a
hard ring in her voice which he did not altogether like. His
greatest admirer had never called him an intuitive man, and he
was quite at a loss to see what was wrong. As a schemer he was
perhaps, a little naive. He had taken it for granted that Molly was
ignorant of the manoeuvres which had been going on, and which
had culminated that afternoon in a stammering proposal of
marriage from Lord Dreever in the rose-garden. This, however,
was not the case. The woman incapable of seeing through the
machinations of two men of the mental calibre of Sir Thomas
Blunt and Mr. McEachern has yet to be born. For some considerable
time Molly had been alive to the well-meant plottings of
that worthy pair, and had derived little pleasure from the fact. It
may be that woman loves to be pursued, but she does not love to
be pursued by a crowd.</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern cleared his throat and began again.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_106">106</div>
<p>“You shouldn’t decide a question like that too hastily, my
dear.”</p>
<p>“I didn’t—not too hastily for Lord Dreever, at any rate, poor
dear.”</p>
<p>“It was in your power,” said Mr. McEachern portentously,
“to make a man happy.”</p>
<p>“I did,” said Molly, bitterly. “You should have seen his face
light up. He could hardly believe it was true for a moment, and
then it came home to him, and I thought he would have fallen on
my neck. He did his very best to look heartbroken—out of politeness—but
it was no good. He whistled most of the way back to
the house—all flat, but very cheerfully.”</p>
<p>“My dear! What do you mean?”</p>
<p>Molly had made the discovery earlier in their conversation that
her father had moods whose existence she had not suspected. It
was his turn now to make a similar discovery regarding herself.</p>
<p>“I mean nothing, father,” she said. “I’m just telling you what
happened. He came to me looking like a dog that’s going to be
washed——”</p>
<p>“Why, of course; he was nervous, my dear.”</p>
<p>“Of course. He couldn’t know that I was going to refuse him.”</p>
<p>She was breathing quickly. He started to speak, but she went
on looking straight before her. Her face was very white in the
moonlight.</p>
<p>“He took me into the rose-garden. Was that Sir Thomas’s
idea? There couldn’t have been a better setting, I’m sure—the
roses looked lovely. Presently I heard him gulp, and I was so
sorry for him. I would have refused him then, and put him out of
his misery, only I couldn’t very well till he had proposed, could
I? So I turned my back and sniffed at a rose, and then he shut his
eyes—I couldn’t see him, but I knew he shut his eyes—and
began to say his lesson.”</p>
<p>“Molly!”</p>
<p>“He did—he said his lesson. He gabbled it. When he had got
as far as ‘Well don’t you know, what I mean is, that’s what I
wanted to say, you know,’ I turned round and soothed him. I said,
I didn’t love him. He said, ‘No, no, of course not.’ I said he had
paid me a great compliment. He said, ‘Not at all,’ looking very
anxious, poor darling, as if even then he was afraid of what might
come next. But I reassured him, and he cheered up, and we
walked back to the house together, as happy as could be.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_107">107</div>
<p>McEachern put his hand round her shoulder. She winced, but
let it stay. He attempted gruff conciliation.</p>
<p>“My dear, you’ve been imagining things. Of course he isn’t
happy. Why, I saw the young fellow——”</p>
<p>Recollecting that the last time he had seen the young fellow—shortly
after dinner—the young fellow had been occupied in
juggling, with every appearance of mental peace, with two billiard-balls
and a box of matches, he broke off abruptly.</p>
<p>“Father?”</p>
<p>“My dear?”</p>
<p>“Why do you want me to marry Lord Dreever?”</p>
<p>“I think he’s a fine young fellow,” he said, avoiding her eyes.</p>
<p>“He’s quite nice,” said Molly quietly.</p>
<p>McEachern had been trying not to say it. He did not wish to
say it. If it could have been hinted at, he would have done it, but
he was not good at hinting. A lifetime passed in surroundings
where the subtlest hint is a drive in the ribs with a truncheon
does not leave a man an adept at the art. He had to be blunt or
silent.</p>
<p>“He’s the Earl of Dreever, my dear.”</p>
<p>He rushed on, desperately anxious to cover the nakedness of
the statement in a comfortable garment of words.</p>
<p>“Why, you see, you’re young, Molly. It’s only natural you
shouldn’t look on these things sensibly. You expect too much of a
man. You expect this young fellow to be like the heroes of the
novels you read. When you’ve lived a little longer, my dear,
you’ll see that there’s nothing in it. It isn’t the hero of the novel
you want to marry, it’s the man who’ll make you a good husband.”</p>
<p>This remark struck Mr. McEachern as so pithy and profound
that he repeated it.</p>
<p>He went on. Molly was sitting quite still, looking into the
shrubbery. He assumed she was listening, but whether she was or
not he must go on talking. The situation was difficult. Silence
would make it more so.</p>
<p>“Now, look at Lord Dreever,” he said. “There’s a young man
with one of the oldest titles in England. He could go anywhere
and do what he liked, and be excused for whatever he did because
of his name; but he doesn’t. He’s got the right stuff in him. He
doesn’t go racketing around——”</p>
<p>“His uncle doesn’t allow him enough pocket-money,” said
Molly, with a jarring little laugh. “Perhaps that’s why.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_108">108</div>
<p>There was a pause. McEachern required a few moments in
which to marshal his arguments once more. He had been thrown
out of his stride.</p>
<p>“Father dear, listen,” she said. “We always used to understand
each other so well.” He patted her shoulder affectionately. “You
can’t mean what you say. You know I don’t love Lord Dreever,
you know he’s only a boy. Don’t you want me to marry a man?
I love this old place; but surely you can’t think that it can really
matter in a thing like this? You don’t really mean that about the
hero of the novel? I’m not stupid, like that. I only want—oh, I
can’t put it into words; but don’t you see?”</p>
<p>Her eyes were fixed appealingly on him. It only needed a word
from him—perhaps not even a word—to close the gulf which had
opened between them.</p>
<p>He missed the chance. He had had time to think, and his
arguments were ready again. With stolid good humour he marched
along the line he had mapped out. He was kindly and shrewd and
practical, and the gulf gaped wider with every word.</p>
<p>“You mustn’t be rash, my dear—you mustn’t act without
thinking in these things. Lord Dreever is only a boy, as you say,
but he will grow. You say you don’t love him. Nonsense! You like
him, you would go on liking him more and more. And why?
Because you could make what you pleased of him. You’ve got
character, my dear. With a girl like you to look after him, he would
go a long way, a very long way. It’s all there; it only wants bringing
out. And think of it, Molly—Countess of Dreever! There’s
hardly a better title in England. It would make me very happy,
my dear. It’s been my one hope all these years to see you in the
place where you ought to be. And now the chance has come.
Molly dear, don’t throw it away.”</p>
<p>She had leaned back with closed eyes. A wave of exhaustion
had swept over her. She listened in a dull dream. She felt beaten.
They were too strong for her. There were too many of them.
What did it matter? Why not give in and end it all and win peace?
That was all she wanted—peace now. What did it all matter?</p>
<p>“Very well, father,” she said listlessly.</p>
<p>McEachern stopped short.</p>
<p>“You’ll do it, dear?” he cried. “You will?”</p>
<p>“Very well, father.”</p>
<p>He stooped and kissed her.</p>
<p>“My own dear little girl,” he said.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_109">109</div>
<p>She got up.</p>
<p>“I’m rather tired, father,” she said. “I think I’ll go in.”</p>
<p>Two minutes later Mr. McEachern was in Sir Thomas Blunt’s
study. Five minutes later Sir Thomas pressed the bell.</p>
<p>Saunders appeared.</p>
<p>“Tell his lordship,” said Sir Thomas, “that I wish to see him
for a moment. He is in the billiard-room, I think.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_110">110</div>
<h2 id="c17"><span class="small">★ 17 ★</span>
<br /><i>Jimmy Remembers Something, and Hears Something Else</i></h2>
<p>The game between Hargate and Lord Dreever was still in
progress when Jimmy returned to the billiard-room. A glance
at the board showed that the score was seventy—sixty-nine in
favour of spot.</p>
<p>“Good game,” said Jimmy. “Who’s spot?”</p>
<p>“I am,” said his lordship, missing an easy cannon. For some
reason he appeared in high spirits. “Hargate’s been going great
guns. I was eleven ahead a moment ago, but he made a break of
twelve.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever belonged to the class of billiard-player to whom
a double-figure break is a thing to be noted and greeted with
respect.</p>
<p>“Fluky,” muttered the silent Hargate deprecatingly. This was
a long speech for him. Since their meeting at Paddington Station
Jimmy had seldom heard him utter anything beyond a monosyllable.</p>
<p>“Not a bit of it, dear old son,” said Lord Dreever handsomely.
“You’re coming on like a two-year-old. I shan’t be able to give
you twenty in a hundred much longer.”</p>
<p>He went to a side-table and mixed himself a whisky and soda,
singing a brief extract from musical comedy as he did so. There
could be no shadow of doubt that he was finding life good. For
the past few days, and particularly that afternoon, he had been
rather noticeably ill at ease. Jimmy had seen him hanging about
the terrace at half-past five, and had thought that he looked like
a mute at a funeral, but now, only a few hours later, he was
beaming on the world and chirping like a bird.</p>
<p>The game moved jerkily along. Jimmy took a seat and watched.
The score mounted slowly. Lord Dreever was bad, but Hargate
was worse. At length, in the eighties, his lordship struck a brilliant
vein. When he had finished his break his score was ninety-five.
<span class="pb" id="Page_111">111</span>
Hargate, who had profited by a series of misses on his opponent’s
part, had reached ninety-six.</p>
<p>“This is shortening my life,” said Jimmy, leaning forward.</p>
<p>The balls had been left in an ideal position. Even Hargate
could not fail to make a cannon. He made it.</p>
<p>A close finish to even the worst game is exciting. Jimmy
leaned still farther forward to watch the next stroke. It looked
as if Hargate would have to wait for his victory. A good player
could have made a cannon as the balls lay, but not Hargate. They
were almost in a straight line, with white in the centre.</p>
<p>Hargate swore under his breath. There was nothing to be done.
He struck carelessly at white. White rolled against red, seemed to
hang for a moment, and shot straight back against spot. The
game was over.</p>
<p>“Great Scot! What a fluke!” cried the silent one, becoming
quite garrulous at the miracle.</p>
<p>A quiet grin spread itself slowly across Jimmy’s face. He had
remembered what he had been trying to remember for over a
week.</p>
<p>At this moment the door opened and Saunders appeared. “Sir
Thomas would like to see your lordship in his study,” he said.</p>
<p>“Eh? What does he want?”</p>
<p>“Sir Thomas did not confide in me, your lordship.”</p>
<p>“Eh? What? Oh, no. Well, see you later, you men.”</p>
<p>He rested his cue against the table and put on his coat. Jimmy
followed him out of the door, which he shut behind him.</p>
<p>“One second, Dreever,” he said.</p>
<p>“Eh? Halloa! What’s up?”</p>
<p>“Any money on that game?” asked Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Why, yes; by Jove! now you mention it, there was—an even
fiver. And—er—by the way, old man, the fact is, just for the
moment, I’m frightfully——. You haven’t such a thing as a
fiver anywhere about, have you? The fact is——”</p>
<p>“My dear fellow, of course. I’ll square up with him now, shall
I?”</p>
<p>“Fearfully obliged if you would. Thanks, old man. Pay it you
to-morrow.”</p>
<p>“No hurry,” said Jimmy; “plenty more in the old oak chest.”</p>
<p>He went back to the room. Hargate was practising cannons. He
was on the point of making a stroke when Jimmy opened the door.</p>
<p>“Care for a game?” said Hargate.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_112">112</div>
<p>“Not just at present,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>Hargate attempted his cannon and failed badly. Jimmy
smiled.</p>
<p>“Not such a good shot as the last,” he said.</p>
<p>“No.”</p>
<p>“Fine shot, that other.”</p>
<p>“Fluke.”</p>
<p>“I wonder.”</p>
<p>Jimmy lit a cigarette.</p>
<p>“Do you know New York at all?” he asked.</p>
<p>“Been there.”</p>
<p>“Ever been in the Strollers’ Club?”</p>
<p>Hargate turned his back; but Jimmy had seen his face and was
satisfied.</p>
<p>“Don’t know it,” said Hargate.</p>
<p>“Great place,” said Jimmy. “Mostly actors and writers, and
so on. The only drawback is that some pick up queer friends.”</p>
<p>Hargate did not reply. He did not seem interested.</p>
<p>“Yes,” went on Jimmy. “For instance, a pal of mine—an actor
named Mifflin—introduced a man a year ago as a member’s
guest for a fortnight, and this man rooked the fellows of I don’t
know how much at billiards. The old game, you know—nursing
his man right up to the end, and then finishing with a burst. Of
course, when that happens once or twice it may be an accident,
but when a man who poses as a novice always manages by a really
brilliant shot——”</p>
<p>Hargate turned round.</p>
<p>“They fired this fellow out,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Look here!”</p>
<p>“Yes?”</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>“It’s a dull yarn,” said Jimmy apologetically. “I’ve been
boring you. By the way, Dreever asked me to square up with you
for that game, in case he shouldn’t be back. Here you are.”</p>
<p>He held out an empty hand.</p>
<p>“Got it?”</p>
<p>“What are you going to do?” demanded Hargate.</p>
<p>“What am I going to do?” queried Jimmy.</p>
<p>“You know what I mean. If you’ll keep your mouth shut, and
stand in, it’s halves. Is that what you’re after?”</p>
<p>Jimmy was delighted. He knew that by rights the proposal
<span class="pb" id="Page_113">113</span>
should have brought him from his seat, with stern, set face, to
wreak vengeance for the insult, but on such occasions he was apt to
ignore the conventions. His impulse, when he met a man whose
code of behaviour was not the ordinary code, was to chat with
him and to extract his point of view. He felt as little animus
against Hargate as he had felt against Spike on the occasion of
their first meeting.</p>
<p>“Do you make much at this sort of game?” he asked.</p>
<p>Hargate was relieved. This was business-like.</p>
<p>“Pots,” he said, with some enthusiasm—“pots I tell you, if
you’ll stand in——”</p>
<p>“Bit risky, isn’t it?”</p>
<p>“Not a bit of it. An occasional accident——”</p>
<p>“I suppose you’d call me one?”</p>
<p>Hargate grinned.</p>
<p>“It must be pretty tough work,” said Jimmy. “You must have
to use a tremendous lot of self-restraint.”</p>
<p>Hargate sighed.</p>
<p>“That’s the worst of it,” he said—“the having to seem a mug
at the game. I’ve been patronised sometimes by young fools who
thought they were teaching me till I nearly forgot myself and
showed them what real billiards was.”</p>
<p>“There’s always some drawback to the learned professions,”
said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“But there’s a heap to make up for it in this one,” said Hargate.
“Well, look here; is it a deal? You stand in——”</p>
<p>Jimmy shook his head.</p>
<p>“I guess not,” he said. “It’s good of you, but commercial
speculation never was in my line. I’m afraid you must count me
out of this.”</p>
<p>“What! You’re going to tell——”</p>
<p>“No,” said Jimmy, “I’m not. I’m not a vigilance committee.
I won’t tell a soul.”</p>
<p>“Why, then——” began Hargate, relieved.</p>
<p>“Unless, of course,” Jimmy went on, “you play billiards again
while you’re here.”</p>
<p>“But, damn it, man! if I don’t, what’s the good? Look here,
what am I to do if they ask me to play?”</p>
<p>“Give your wrist as an excuse.”</p>
<p>“My wrist?”</p>
<p>“Yes. You sprained it to-morrow after breakfast. It was bad
<span class="pb" id="Page_114">114</span>
luck. I wonder how you came to do it? You didn’t sprain it much,
but just enough to stop you playing billiards.”</p>
<p>Hargate reflected.</p>
<p>“Understand?” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Oh, very well,” said Hargate sullenly. “But,” he burst out, “if
I ever get a chance to get even with you——”</p>
<p>“You won’t,” said Jimmy. “Dismiss the rosy dream. Get even!
You don’t know me! There’s not a flaw in my armour. I’m a sort
of modern edition of the Stainless Knight. Tennyson drew
Galahad from me. I move through life with almost a sickening
absence of sin. But hush! We are observed—at least, we shall be
in another minute—somebody is coming down the passage. You
do understand, don’t you? Sprained wrist is the watchword.”</p>
<p>The handle turned. It was Lord Dreever, back again from his
interview.</p>
<p>“Halloa, Dreever!” said Jimmy. “We’ve missed you. Hargate
has been doing his best to amuse me with acrobatic tricks. But
you’re too reckless, Hargate, old man. Mark my words, one of
these days you’ll be spraining your wrist. You should be more
careful. What, going? Good night. Pleasant fellow, Hargate,” he
added, as the footsteps retreated down the passage. “Well, my
lad, what’s the matter with you? You look depressed.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever flung himself on to the lounge and groaned
hollowly.</p>
<p>“Damn! Damn!! Damn!!!” he observed.</p>
<p>His glassy eye met Jimmy’s and wandered away again.</p>
<p>“What on earth’s the matter?” demanded Jimmy. “You go
out of here carolling like a song-bird, and you come back moaning
like a lost soul. What’s happened?”</p>
<p>“Give me a brandy and soda, Pitt, old man, there’s a good
chap. I’m in a fearful hole.”</p>
<p>“Why? What’s the matter?”</p>
<p>“I’m engaged,” groaned his lordship.</p>
<p>“Engaged? I wish you’d explain. What on earth’s wrong with
you! Don’t you want to be engaged? What’s your——”</p>
<p>He broke off as a sudden, awful suspicion, dawned upon him.
“Who is she?” he cried.</p>
<p>He gripped the stricken peer’s shoulder and shook it savagely.
Unfortunately he selected the precise moment when the latter
was in the act of calming his quivering nerve-centres with a gulp
of brandy and soda, and for a space of some two minutes it
<span class="pb" id="Page_115">115</span>
seemed as if the engagement would be broken off by the premature
extinction of the Dreever line. A long and painful fit of coughing,
however, ended with his lordship still alive and on the road to
recovery.</p>
<p>He eyed Jimmy reproachfully, but Jimmy was in no mood for
apologies.</p>
<p>“Who is she?” he kept demanding. “What’s her name?”</p>
<p>“Might have killed me,” grumbled the convalescent.</p>
<p>“Who is she?”</p>
<p>“What? Why, Miss McEachern.”</p>
<p>Jimmy had known what the answer would be; but it was
scarcely less of a shock for that reason.</p>
<p>“Miss McEachern?” he echoed.</p>
<p>Lord Dreever nodded a sombre nod.</p>
<p>“You’re engaged to her?”</p>
<p>Another sombre nod.</p>
<p>“I don’t believe it,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“I wish I didn’t,” said his lordship wistfully, ignoring the slight
rudeness of the remark. “But worse luck, it’s true.”</p>
<p>For the first time since the disclosure of the name Jimmy’s
attention was directed to the remarkable demeanour of his successful
rival.</p>
<p>“You don’t seem over-pleased,” he said.</p>
<p>“Pleased! Have a fiver each way on ‘pleased’! No, I’m not
exactly leaping with joy.”</p>
<p>“Then what the devil is it all about? What do you mean?
What’s the idea? If you don’t want to marry Miss McEachern,
why did you propose to her?”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever closed his eyes.</p>
<p>“Dear old boy, don’t. It’s my uncle.”</p>
<p>“Your uncle?”</p>
<p>“Didn’t I explain it all to you?—about him wanting me to
marry? You know—I told you the whole thing.”</p>
<p>Jimmy stared at him in silence.</p>
<p>“Do you mean to say——” he said slowly.</p>
<p>He stopped. It was a profanation to put the thing into words.</p>
<p>“What, old man?”</p>
<p>Jimmy gulped.</p>
<p>“Do you mean to say you want to marry Miss McEachern
simply because she has money?” he said.</p>
<p>It was not the first time that he had heard of a case of a British
<span class="pb" id="Page_116">116</span>
peer marrying for such a reason, but it was the first time that the
thing had filled him with horror. In some circumstances things
come home more forcibly to us.</p>
<p>“It’s not me, old man,” murmured his lordship—“it’s my
uncle.”</p>
<p>“Your uncle? Good heavens!” Jimmy clenched his hands
despairingly. “Do you mean to say that you let your uncle order
you about in a thing like this? Do you mean to say you’re such a—such
a—such a gelatine-backboned worm——”</p>
<p>“Old man, I say!” protested his lordship, wounded.</p>
<p>“I’d call you a wretched knock-kneed skunk, only I don’t want
to be fulsome. I hate flattering a man to his face.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever, deeply pained, half rose from his seat.</p>
<p>“Don’t get up,” urged Jimmy smoothly; “I couldn’t trust
myself.”</p>
<p>His lordship subsided hastily. He was feeling alarmed. He had
never seen this side of Jimmy’s character. At first he had been
merely aggrieved and disappointed. He had expected sympathy.
Now the matter had become more serious. Jimmy was pacing the
room like a young and hungry tiger. At present, it was true, there
was a billiard-table between them; but his lordship felt that he
could have done with good, stout bars. He nestled in his seat with
the earnest concentration of a limpet on a rock. It would be
deuced bad form, of course, for Jimmy to assault his host, but
could Jimmy be trusted to remember the niceties of etiquette?</p>
<p>“Why the deuce she accepted you I can’t think,” said Jimmy,
half to himself, stopping suddenly and glaring across the table.</p>
<p>Lord Dreever felt relieved. This was not polite, perhaps, but
at least it was not violent.</p>
<p>“That’s what beats me, too, old man,” he said. “Between you
and me, it’s a jolly rum business. This afternoon——”</p>
<p>“What about this afternoon?”</p>
<p>“Why, she wouldn’t have me at any price.”</p>
<p>“You asked her this afternoon?”</p>
<p>“Yes; and it was all right then. She refused me like a bird,
wouldn’t hear of it, came pretty near laughing in my face; and
then to-night,” he went on, his voice squeaky at the thought of
his wrongs, “my uncle sends for me and says she’s changed her
mind and is waiting for me in the morning-room. I go there and
she tells me in about three words that she’s been thinking it over
and that the whole fearful thing is on again. I call it jolly rough
<span class="pb" id="Page_117">117</span>
on a chap. I felt such a frightful ass, you know, I didn’t know
what to do—whether to kiss her, I mean——”</p>
<p>Jimmy snorted violently.</p>
<p>“Eh?” said his lordship blankly.</p>
<p>“Go on,” said Jimmy, between his teeth.</p>
<p>“I felt a fearful fool, you know. I just said ‘Right-O!’ or something—dashed
if I know what I did say—and legged it. It’s a
jolly rum business, the whole thing. It isn’t as if she wanted me—I
could see that with half an eye—she doesn’t care a hang for me.
It’s my belief, old man,” he said solemnly, “that she’s been
badgered into it. I believe my uncle’s been at her.”</p>
<p>Jimmy laughed shortly.</p>
<p>“My dear man, you seem to think your uncle’s persuasive
influence is universal. I guess it’s confined to you.”</p>
<p>“Well, anyhow, I believe that’s what’s happened. What do you
say?”</p>
<p>“Why say anything? There doesn’t seem to be much need.”</p>
<p>He poured some brandy into a glass and added a little soda.</p>
<p>“You take it pretty stiff,” observed his lordship, with a touch
of envy.</p>
<p>“On occasions,” said Jimmy, emptying his glass.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_118">118</div>
<h2 id="c18"><span class="small">★ 18 ★</span>
<br /><i>The Lochinvar Method</i></h2>
<p>As Jimmy sat smoking a last cigarette in his bedroom before
going to bed that night Spike Mullins came in. Jimmy had
been thinking things over. He was one of those men who are at
their best in a losing game. Imminent disaster always had the
effect of keying him up and putting an edge on his mind. The
news he had heard that night had left him with undiminished
determination, but conscious that a change of method would be
needed. He must stake all on a single throw now. Young Lochinvar
rather than Romeo must be his model. He declined to believe
himself incapable of getting anything that he wanted as badly as he
wanted Molly. He also declined to believe that she was really
attached to Lord Dreever. He suspected the hand of McEachern
in the affair, though the suspicion did not clear up the mystery by
any means. Molly was a girl of character, not a feminine counterpart
of his lordship, content meekly to do what she was told in a
matter of this kind. The whole thing puzzled him.</p>
<p>“Well, Spike?” he said.</p>
<p>He was not too pleased at the interruption. He was thinking,
and he wanted to be alone.</p>
<p>Something appeared to have disturbed Spike. His bearing was
excited.</p>
<p>“Say, boss! Guess what. You know dat guy dat come dis
afternoon?—de guy from de village, dat came wit old man
McEachern.”</p>
<p>“Galer?” said Jimmy. “What about him?”</p>
<p>There had been an addition to the guests at the castle that
afternoon. Mr. McEachern, walking in the village, had happened
upon an old New York acquaintance of his, who, touring England,
had reached Dreever and was anxious to see the historic castle.
Mr. McEachern had brought him thither, introduced him to Sir
Thomas, and now Mr. Samuel Galer was occupying a room on the
same floor as Jimmy’s. He had appeared at dinner that night, a
short, wooden-faced man, with no more conversation than
<span class="pb" id="Page_119">119</span>
Hargate. Jimmy had not paid any particular attention to him.</p>
<p>“What about him?” he said.</p>
<p>“He’s a ‘sleut’, boss.”</p>
<p>“A what?”</p>
<p>“A ‘sleut’.”</p>
<p>“A detective?”</p>
<p>“Dat’s right. A fly cop.”</p>
<p>“What makes you think that?”</p>
<p>“T’ink! Why, I can tell dem by deir eyes and deir feet, and de
whole of dem. I could pick out a fly cop from a bunch of a t’ousand.
He’s sure a ’nough ‘sleut’ all right, all right. I seen him rubbering
at you, boss.”</p>
<p>“At me! Why at me? Why, of course, I see now. Our friend
McEachern has got him in to spy on us.”</p>
<p>“Dat’s right, boss.”</p>
<p>“Of course you may be mistaken.”</p>
<p>“Not me, boss. And, say, he ain’t de only one.”</p>
<p>“What, more detectives? They’ll have to put up ‘House Full’
boards at this rate. Who’s the other?”</p>
<p>“A mug what’s down in de soivants’ hall. I wasn’t so sure of
him at foist, but now I’m on to his curves. He’s a sleut all right.
He’s vally to Sir Tummas, dis second mug is; but he ain’t no
vally! He’s come to see no one don’t get busy wit de jools. Say,
what do youse t’ink of dem jools, boss?”</p>
<p>“Finest I ever saw.”</p>
<p>“Yes, dat’s right. A hundred thousand plunks dey set him
back. Dey’re de limit, ain’t dey? Say, won’t you really——”</p>
<p>“Spike, I’m surprised at you! Do you know you’re getting a
regular Mephistopheles, Spike? Suppose I hadn’t an iron will,
what would happen? You really must select your subjects of
conversation more carefully. You’re bad company for the likes
of me.”</p>
<p>Spike shuffled despondently.</p>
<p>“But, boss——”</p>
<p>Jimmy shook his head.</p>
<p>“It can’t be done, my lad.”</p>
<p>“But it can, boss,” protested Spike. “It’s dead easy. I’ve been
up to de room, and I seen de box what de jools is kept in. Why,
it’s de softest ever! We could get dem as easy as pullin’ de plug
out of a bottle. Why, say, dere’s never been such a peach of a
place for gettin’ hold of de stuff as dis house. Dat’s right, boss.
<span class="pb" id="Page_120">120</span>
Why, look what I got dis afternoon, just snoopin’ round and not
really trying to get busy at all. It was just lying about.”</p>
<p>He plunged his hand into his pocket and drew it out again. As
he unclosed his fingers Jimmy caught the gleam of precious stones.</p>
<p>“What the——” he gasped.</p>
<p>Spike was looking at his treasure-trove with an air of affectionate
proprietorship.</p>
<p>“Where on earth did you get those?” asked Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Out of one of de rooms. Dey belonged to one of de loidies. It
was de easiest old t’ing ever, boss. I just went in when dere was
nobody around, and dere dey was on de toible. I never butted
into anyt’ing so soft.”</p>
<p>“Spike!”</p>
<p>“Yes, boss.”</p>
<p>“Do you remember the room you took them from?”</p>
<p>“Sure. It was de foist on de——”</p>
<p>“Then just listen to me for a moment, my bright boy. When
we’re at breakfast to-morrow you want to go to that room and put
those things back—all of them, mind you—just where you found
them. Do you understand?”</p>
<p>Spike’s jaw had fallen.</p>
<p>“Put dem back, boss?” he faltered.</p>
<p>“Every single one of them.”</p>
<p>“Boss!” said Spike plaintively.</p>
<p>“Remember—every single one of them, just where it belongs.
See?”</p>
<p>“Very well, boss.”</p>
<p>The dejection in his voice would have moved the sternest to
pity. Gloom had enveloped Spike’s spirit. The sunlight had gone
out of his life.</p>
<p>It had also gone out of the lives of a good many other people at
the castle. This was mainly due to the growing shadow of the day
of the theatricals.</p>
<p>For pure discomfort there are few things in the world that can
compete with the final rehearsals of an amateur theatrical performance
at a country house. Every day the atmosphere becomes
more heavily charged with restlessness and depression. The
producer of the piece, especially if he is also the author of it,
develops a sort of intermittent insanity. He plucks at his
moustache, if he has one; at his hair, if he has not. He mutters to
himself. He gives vent to occasional despairing cries. The
<span class="pb" id="Page_121">121</span>
soothing suavity which marked his demeanour in the earlier
rehearsals disappears.</p>
<p>He no longer says with a winning smile, “Splendid, old man,
splendid! Couldn’t be better. But I think we’ll take that over just
once more, if you don’t mind.” Instead, he rolls his eyes and snaps
out, “Once more, please. This’ll never do. At this rate we might
just as well cut out the show altogether. What’s that? No, it
won’t be all right on the night! Now, then, once more; and do pull
yourselves together this time.” After which the scene is sulkily
resumed; and conversation, when the parties concerned meet
subsequently, is cold and strained.</p>
<p>Matters had reached this stage at the castle. Everybody was
thoroughly tired of the piece, and, but for the thought of the
disappointment which (presumably) would rack the neighbouring
nobility and gentry if it were not to be produced, would have
resigned their places without a twinge of regret. People who had
schemed to get the best and longest parts were wishing now that
they had been content with First Footman or Giles, a villager.</p>
<p>“I’ll never run an amateur show again as long as I live,”
confided Charteris to Jimmy, almost tearfully. “It’s not good
enough. Most of them aren’t word-perfect yet.”</p>
<p>“It’ll be all right——”</p>
<p>“Oh, don’t say it’ll be all right on the night.”</p>
<p>“I wasn’t going to,” said Jimmy. “I was going to say it’ll be all
right after the night. People will soon forget how badly the thing
went.”</p>
<p>“You’re a nice, comforting sort of man, aren’t you?” said
Charteris.</p>
<p>“Why worry?” said Jimmy. “If you go on like this, it’ll be
Westminster Abbey for you in your prime. You’ll be getting
brain fever.”</p>
<p>Jimmy himself was one of the few who were feeling reasonably
cheerful. He was deriving a keen amusement at present from the
manoeuvres of Mr. Samuel Galer, of New York. This lynx-eyed
man, having been instructed by Mr. McEachern to watch Jimmy,
was doing so with a thoroughness which would have aroused the
suspicions of a babe. If Jimmy went to the billiard-room after
dinner, Mr. Galer was there to keep him company. If, during the
course of the day, he had occasion to fetch a handkerchief or a
cigarette-case from his bedroom, he was sure, on emerging, to
stumble upon Mr. Galer in the corridor. The employees of
<span class="pb" id="Page_122">122</span>
Dodson’s Private Inquiry Agency believed in earning their
salaries.</p>
<p>Occasionally, after these encounters, Jimmy would come upon
Sir Thomas Blunt’s valet, the other man in whom Spike’s trained
eye had discerned the distinguishing marks of the sleuth. He was
usually somewhere round the corner at these moments, and
when collided with apologised with great politeness. Jimmy
decided that he must have come under suspicion in this case
vicariously, through Spike. Spike, in the servants’ hall, would, of
course, stand out conspicuously enough to catch the eye of a
detective on the look out for sin among the servants; and he himself,
as Spike’s employer, had been marked down as a possible
confederate.</p>
<p>It tickled him to think that both these giant brains should be so
greatly exercised on his account.</p>
<p>He had been watching Molly closely during these days. So far
no announcement of the engagement had been made. It struck
him that possibly it was being reserved for public mention on the
night of the theatricals. The whole county would be at the castle
then. There could be no more fitting moment. He sounded Lord
Dreever, and the latter said moodily that he was probably right.</p>
<p>“There’s going to be a dance of sorts after the show,” he said,
“and it’ll be done then, I suppose. No getting out of it after that—it’ll
be all over the county. Trust my uncle for that! He’ll get on
a table and shout it, shouldn’t wonder, and it’ll be in the <i>Morning
Post</i> next day and Katie’ll see it. Only two days more! Oh, Lord!”</p>
<p>Jimmy deduced that Katie was the Savoy girl, concerning
whom his lordship had vouchsafed no particulars save that she
was a ripper and hadn’t a penny.</p>
<p>Only two days! Like the Battle of Waterloo, it was going to be a
close-run affair. More than ever now he realised how much she
meant to him, and there were moments when it seemed to him
that she, too, had begun to understand. That night on the terrace
seemed somehow to have changed their relationship. He thought
he had got closer to her—they were in touch. Before she had been
frank, cheerful, unembarrassed; now he noticed a constraint in
her manner, a curious shyness. There was a barrier between them,
but it was not the old barrier. He had ceased to be one of a crowd.</p>
<p>But it was a race against time. The first day slipped by, a
blank, and the second, till now it was but a matter of hours. The
last afternoon had come.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_123">123</div>
<p>Not even Mr. Samuel Galer, of Dodson’s Private Inquiry
Agency, could have kept a more unflagging watch than did
Jimmy during those hours. There was no rehearsal that afternoon,
and the members of the company, in various stages of
nervous collapse, strayed distractedly about the grounds. First
one, then another, would seize upon Molly, while Jimmy,
watching from afar, cursed their pertinacity.</p>
<p>At last she wandered off alone, and Jimmy quitting his ambush,
followed.</p>
<p>She walked in the direction of the lake. It had been a terribly
hot, oppressive afternoon. There was thunder in the air. Through
the trees the lake glistened invitingly.</p>
<p>She was standing at the water’s edge when Jimmy came up.
Her back was turned. She was rocking with her foot a Canadian
canoe that lay alongside the bank. She started as he spoke. His
feet on the soft turf had made no sound.</p>
<p>“Can I take you out on the lake?” he said.</p>
<p>She did not answer for a moment. She was plainly confused.</p>
<p>“I’m sorry,” she said. “I—I’m waiting for Lord Dreever.”</p>
<p>Jimmy saw that she was nervous. There was tension in the air.
She was looking away from him, out across the lake, and her face
was flushed.</p>
<p>“Won’t you?” he said.</p>
<p>“I’m sorry,” she said again.</p>
<p>Jimmy looked over his shoulder. Down the lower terrace was
approaching the long form of his lordship. He walked with
pensive jerkiness, not as one hurrying to a welcome tryst. As
Jimmy looked up he vanished behind the great clump of laurels
which stood on the lowest terrace. In another minute he would
appear round them.</p>
<p>Gently, but with extreme despatch, Jimmy placed a hand on
either side of Molly’s waist. The next moment he had swung her
off her feet and lowered her carefully on to the cushions in the
bow of the canoe.</p>
<p>Then, jumping in himself with a force that made the boat rock,
he loosed the mooring-rope, seized the paddle and pushed off.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_124">124</div>
<h2 id="c19"><span class="small">★ 19 ★</span>
<br /><i>On the Lake</i></h2>
<p>In making love, as in every other branch of life, consistency is the
quality most to be aimed at. To hedge is fatal. A man must
choose the line of action which he judges to be best suited to his
temperament, and hold to it without deviation. If Lochinvar
snatches the maiden up on to his saddlebow he must continue in
that vein. He must not fancy that, having accomplished the feat,
he can resume the episode on lines of devotional humility.
Prehistoric man, who conducted his courtship with a club, never
fell into the error of apologising when his bride complained of
headache.</p>
<p>Jimmy did not apologise. The idea did not enter his mind. He
was feeling prehistoric. His heart was beating fast and his mind
was in a whirl, but the one definite thought that came to him during
the first few seconds of the journey was that he ought to have
done this earlier. This was the right way—pick her up and carry
her off and leave uncles and fathers and butter-haired peers of the
realm to look after themselves. This was the way—alone together
in their own little world of water with nobody to interrupt and
nobody to overhear. He should have done it before. He had
wasted precious, golden time hanging about while futile men
chatted to her of things that could not possibly be of interest.
But he had done the right thing at last—he had got her. She must
listen to him now. She could not help listening. They were the
only inhabitants of this new world.</p>
<p>He looked back over his shoulder at the world they had left.
The last of the Dreevers had rounded the clump of laurels, and
was standing at the edge of the water, gazing perplexedly after
the retreating canoe.</p>
<p>“These poets put a thing very neatly sometimes,” said Jimmy,
reflectively, as he dug the paddle into the water. “The man who
said ‘Distance lends enchantment to the view’, for instance.
Dreever looks quite nice when you see him as far away as this,
with a good strip of water in between.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_125">125</div>
<p>Molly, gazing over the side of the boat into the lake, abstained
from feasting her eyes on the picturesque spectacle.</p>
<p>“Why did you do it?” she said, in a low voice.</p>
<p>Jimmy shipped the paddle and allowed the canoe to drift. The
ripple of the water against the prow sounded clear and thin in the
stillness. The world seemed asleep. The sun blazed down, turning
the water to flame. The air was hot with the damp, electric heat
that heralds a thunderstorm. Molly’s face looked small and cool
in the shade of her big hat. Jimmy, as he watched her, felt that he
had done well. This was, indeed, the way.</p>
<p>“Why did you do it?” she said again.</p>
<p>“I had to.”</p>
<p>“Take me back.”</p>
<p>“No.”</p>
<p>He took up the paddle and placed a broader strip of water
between the two worlds, then paused once more.</p>
<p>“I have something to say to you first,” he said.</p>
<p>She did not answer. He looked over his shoulder again. His
lordship had disappeared.</p>
<p>“Do you mind if I smoke?”</p>
<p>She nodded. He filled his pipe carefully and lit it. The smoke
moved sluggishly up through the still air. There was a long silence.
A fish jumped close by, falling back in a shower of silver drops.
Molly started at the sound and half turned.</p>
<p>“That was a fish,” she said, as a child might have done.</p>
<p>Jimmy knocked the ashes out of his pipe.</p>
<p>“What made you do it?” he asked abruptly echoing her own
question.</p>
<p>She drew her fingers slowly through the water without speaking.</p>
<p>“You know what I mean. Dreever told me.”</p>
<p>She looked up with a flash of spirit, which died away as she
spoke.</p>
<p>“What right?” She stopped and looked away again.</p>
<p>“None,” said Jimmy. “But I wish you would tell me.”</p>
<p>She hung her head. Jimmy bent forward and touched her
hand.</p>
<p>“Don’t,” he said. “For Heaven’s sake, don’t! You mustn’t.”</p>
<p>“I must,” she said miserably.</p>
<p>“You shan’t! It’s wicked.”</p>
<p>“I must. It’s no good talking about it—it’s too late.”</p>
<p>“It’s not. You must break it off to-day.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_126">126</div>
<p>She shook her head. Her fingers still dabbled mechanically in
the water. The sun was hidden now behind a grey veil, which
deepened into a sullen black over the hill behind the castle. The
heat had grown more oppressive.</p>
<p>“What made you do it?” he asked again.</p>
<p>“Don’t let’s talk about it, please!”</p>
<p>He had a momentary glimpse of her face. There were tears in
her eyes. At the sight his self-control snapped.</p>
<p>“You sha’n’t!” he cried. “It’s ghastly. I won’t let you. You
must understand now—you must know what you are to me. Do
you think I shall let you——”</p>
<p>A low growl of thunder rumbled through the stillness, like the
muttering of a sleepy giant. The black cloud which had hung
over the hill had crept closer. The heat was stifling. In the middle
of the lake, some fifty yards distant, lay the island, cool and
mysterious in the gathering darkness.</p>
<p>He broke off and seized the paddle.</p>
<p>On this side of the island was a boat-house—a little creek,
covered over with boards, and capable of sheltering an ordinary
row-boat. He ran the canoe in just as the storm began, and
turned her broadside on so that they could watch the rain, which
was sweeping over the lake in sheets.</p>
<p>He began to speak again, more slowly now.</p>
<p>“I think I loved you from the first day I saw you on the ship—and
then I lost you. I found you again by a miracle, and lost you
again; I found you here by another miracle, but this time I am
not going to lose you. Do you think I am going to stand by and
see you taken from me by—by——”</p>
<p>He took her hand.</p>
<p>“Molly, you can’t love him. It isn’t possible. If I thought you
did, I wouldn’t try to spoil your happiness—I’d go away. But
you don’t—you can’t. He’s nothing. Molly!”</p>
<p>“Molly!”</p>
<p>She said nothing, but for the first time her eyes met his, clear
and unwavering. He could read fear in them, fear—not of himself,
of something vague, something he could not guess at. But they
shone with a light which conquered the fear as the sun conquers
fire; and he drew her to him, and kissed her again and again,
murmuring incoherently.</p>
<p>Suddenly she wrenched herself away, struggling like some wild
thing. The boat plunged.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_127">127</div>
<p>“I can’t!” she cried, in a choking voice. “I mustn’t! Oh, I
can’t!”</p>
<p>He stretched out a hand and clutched at the rail that ran along
the wall. The plunging ceased. He turned. She had hidden her
face, and was sobbing, quietly, with the forlorn hopelessness of a
lost child.</p>
<p>He made a movement towards her, but drew back. He felt
dazed.</p>
<p>The rain thudded and splashed on the wooden roof. A few
drops trickled through a crack in the boards. He took off his coat
and placed it gently over her shoulders.</p>
<p>“Molly!”</p>
<p>She looked up with wet eyes.</p>
<p>“Molly dear, what is it?”</p>
<p>“I mustn’t. It isn’t right.”</p>
<p>“I don’t understand.”</p>
<p>“I mustn’t, Jimmy.”</p>
<p>He moved cautiously forward, holding the rail till he was at her
side, and took her in his arms.</p>
<p>“What is it, dear? Tell me.”</p>
<p>She clung to him without speaking.</p>
<p>“You aren’t worrying about him, are you—about Dreever?
There’s nothing to worry about. It’ll be quite easy and simple.
I’ll tell him if you like. He knows you don’t care for him, and
besides, there’s another girl in London that he——”</p>
<p>“No, no; it’s not that.”</p>
<p>“What is it, dear? What’s troubling you?”</p>
<p>“Jimmy——” She stopped.</p>
<p>“Yes?”</p>
<p>“Jimmy, father wouldn’t. Father—father doesn’t——”</p>
<p>“Doesn’t like me?”</p>
<p>She nodded miserably.</p>
<p>A great wave of relief swept over Jimmy. He had imagined—he
hardly knew what he had imagined—some vast, insuperable
obstacle, some tremendous catastrophe whirling them asunder.
He could have laughed aloud in his happiness. So this was it,
this was the cloud that brooded over them—that Mr. McEachern
did not like him! The angel, guarding Eden with a fiery sword, had
changed into a policeman with a truncheon.</p>
<p>“He must learn to love me,” he said lightly.</p>
<p>She looked at him hopelessly. He could not see, he could not
<span class="pb" id="Page_128">128</span>
understand. And how could she tell him? Her father’s words rang
in her brain. He was “crooked”; he was “here on some game”;
he was being watched. But she loved him—she loved him. Oh,
how could she make him understand?</p>
<p>She clung tighter to him, trembling. He became serious again.</p>
<p>“Dear, you mustn’t worry,” he said. “It can’t be helped. He’ll
come round. Once we’re married——”</p>
<p>“No, no! Oh, can’t you understand? I couldn’t—I couldn’t.”</p>
<p>“But, dear,” he said, “you can’t— Do you mean to say— Will
that——“(he searched for a word)—“stop you?” he concluded.</p>
<p>“It must,” she whispered.</p>
<p>A cold hand clutched at his heart. His world was falling to
pieces, crumbling under his eyes.</p>
<p>“But—but you love me,” he said slowly. It was as if he were
trying to find the key to a puzzle.</p>
<p>“I—don’t see——”</p>
<p>“You couldn’t—you can’t. You’re a man—you don’t know—it’s
so different for a man. He’s brought up all his life with the idea
of leaving home, he goes away naturally.”</p>
<p>“But, dear, you couldn’t live at home all your life. Whoever
you married——”</p>
<p>“But this would be different. Father would never speak to me
again— I should never see him again. He would go right out of my
life. Jimmy, I couldn’t. A girl can’t cut away twenty years of her
life and start afresh like that. I should be haunted. I should make
you miserable. Every day a hundred little things would remind me
of him, and I shouldn’t be strong enough to resist them. You
don’t know how fond he is of me, how good he has always been.
Ever since I can remember, we’ve been such friends. You’ve
only seen the outside of him, and I know how different that is
from what he really is. All his life he has thought only of me. He
has told me things about himself which nobody else dreams of, and
I know that all these years he has been working just for me.
Jimmy, you don’t hate me for saying this, do you?”</p>
<p>“Go on,” he said, drawing her closer to him.</p>
<p>“I can’t remember my mother—she died when I was quite
little—so he and I have been the only ones, till you came.”</p>
<p>Memories of those early days crowded her mind as she spoke,
making her voice tremble; half-forgotten trifles, many of them,
fraught with the glamour and fragrance of past happiness.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_129">129</div>
<p>“We have always been together. He trusted me and I trusted
him, and we saw things through together. When I was ill he used
to sit up all night with me, night after night. Once—I’d only got
a little fever really, but I thought I was terribly bad—I heard him
come in late and called out to him, and he came straight in and
sat and held my hand all through the night; and it was only by
accident I found out later that it had been raining, and that he was
soaked through. It might have killed him. We were partners,
Jimmy dear. I couldn’t do anything to hurt him now, could I? It
wouldn’t be square.”</p>
<p>Jimmy turned away his head, for fear his face might betray
what he was feeling. He was in a hell of unreasoning jealousy. He
wanted her, body and soul, and every word she said bit like a
raw wound. A moment before and he had felt that she belonged
to him; now, in the first shock of reaction, he saw himself a
stranger, an intruder, a trespasser on holy ground.</p>
<p>She saw the movement, and her intuition put her in touch with
his thoughts.</p>
<p>“No, no!” she cried. “No, Jimmy—not that!”</p>
<p>Their eyes met, and he was satisfied.</p>
<p>They sat there silent. The rain had lessened its force and was
falling now in a gentle shower; a strip of blue sky, pale and watery,
showed through the grey over the hills. On the island close
behind them a thrush had begun to sing.</p>
<p>“What are we to do?” she said at last. “What can we do?”</p>
<p>“We must wait,” he said. “It will all come right. It must.
Nothing can stop us now.”</p>
<p>The rain had ceased. The blue had routed the grey and driven
it from the sky. The sun, low down in the west, shone out
bravely over the lake. The air was cool and fresh.</p>
<p>Jimmy’s spirits rose with a bound. He accepted the omen. This
was the world as it really was, smiling and friendly, not grey, as he
had fancied it. He had won. Nothing could alter that. What
remained to be done was trivial. He wondered how he could ever
have allowed it to weigh upon him.</p>
<p>After a while he pushed the boat out of its shelter on to the
glittering water, and seized the paddle.</p>
<p>“We must be getting back,” he said. “I wonder what the time
is? I wish we could stay out for ever. But it must be late.
Molly!”</p>
<p>“Yes?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_130">130</div>
<p>“Whatever happens, you’ll break off this engagement with
Dreever? Shall I tell him? I will if you like.”</p>
<p>“No, I will. I’ll write him a note if I don’t see him before
dinner.”</p>
<p>Jimmy paddled on a few strokes.</p>
<p>“It’s no good,” he said suddenly; “I can’t keep it in. Molly, do
you mind if I sing a bar or two? I’ve got a beastly voice, but I’m
feeling rather happy. I’ll stop as soon as I can.”</p>
<p>He raised his voice discordantly.</p>
<p>Covertly, from beneath the shade of her big hat, Molly watched
him with troubled eyes. The sun had gone down behind the hills,
and the water had ceased to glitter. There was a suggestion of
chilliness in the air. The great mass of the castle frowned down
upon them, dark and forbidding in the dim light.</p>
<p>She shivered.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_131">131</div>
<h2 id="c20"><span class="small">★ 20 ★</span>
<br /><i>A Lesson in Piquet</i></h2>
<p>Lord Dreever, meanwhile, having left the waterside, lit a
cigarette, and proceeded to make a reflective tour of the
grounds. He felt aggrieved with the world. Molly’s desertion in
the canoe with Jimmy did not trouble him. He had other sorrows.
One is never at one’s best and sunniest when one has been forced
by a ruthless uncle into abandoning the girl one loves and
becoming engaged to another to whom one is indifferent. Something
of a jaundiced tinge stains one’s outlook on life in such
circumstances. Moreover, Lord Dreever was not by nature an
introspective young man, but, examining his position as he
walked along, he found himself wondering whether it was not a
little unheroic. He came to the conclusion that perhaps it was.</p>
<p>Of course, Uncle Thomas could make it deucedly unpleasant
for him if he kicked—that was the trouble. If only he had even,
say, a couple of thousand a year of his own, he might make a
fight for it. But, dash it! Uncle Tom could cut off supplies to
such a frightful extent, if there was trouble, that he would have to
go on living at Dreever indefinitely, without so much as a fearful
quid to call his own. Imagination boggled at the prospect. In the
summer and autumn, when there was shooting, his lordship was
not indisposed to stay at the home of his fathers. But all the year
round! Better a broken heart inside the radius than a sound one
in the country in the winter.</p>
<p>“But, by gad,” mused his lordship, “if I had as much as a
couple—yes, dash it! even a couple of thousand a year, I’d chance
it and ask Katie to marry me, dashed if I wouldn’t!”</p>
<p>He walked on, drawing thoughtfully at his cigarette. The more
he reviewed the situation, the less he liked it. There was only one
bright spot in it, and that was the feeling that now money must
surely get a shade less tight. Extracting the precious ore from Sir
Thomas hitherto had been like pulling back-teeth out of a bulldog.
But now, on the strength of this infernal engagement, surely he
might reasonably be expected to scatter largesse to some extent.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_132">132</div>
<p>His lordship was just wondering whether, if approached in a
softened mood, the other might not disgorge something quite big,
when a large, warm rain-drop fell on his hand. From the bushes
round about came an ever-increasing patter. The sky was leaden.</p>
<p>He looked round him for shelter. He had reached the rose-garden
in the course of his perambulations. At the far end was a
summer-house. He turned up his coat-collar and ran.</p>
<p>As he drew near he heard a slow and dirge-like whistling proceeding
from the interior. Plunging in out of breath, just as the
deluge began, he found Hargate seated at the little wooden table
with an earnest expression on his face. The table was covered
with cards. Hargate had not yet been compelled to sprain his
wrist, having adopted the alternative of merely refusing invitations
to play billiards.</p>
<p>“Halloa, Hargate!” said his lordship. “Isn’t it coming down, by
Jove!”</p>
<p>Hargate glanced up, nodded without speaking, and turned his
attention to the cards once more. He took one from the pack in
his left hand, looked at it, hesitated for a moment, as if doubtful
whereabouts on the table it would produce the most artistic effect,
and finally put it face upwards. Then he moved another card
from the table and put it on top of the other one. Throughout the
performance he whistled painfully.</p>
<p>His lordship regarded him with annoyance.</p>
<p>“That looks frightfully exciting,” he said disparagingly. “What
are you playing at? Patience?”</p>
<p>Hargate nodded again—this time without looking up.</p>
<p>“Oh, don’t sit there looking like a frog,” said Lord Dreever
irritably. “Talk, man.”</p>
<p>Hargate gathered up the cards and proceeded to shuffle them in
a meditative manner, whistling the while.</p>
<p>“Oh, stop it!” said his lordship.</p>
<p>Hargate nodded, and stopped.</p>
<p>“Look here,” said Lord Dreever, “this is boring me stiff. Let’s
have a game at something—anything to pass away the time. Hang
this rain! We shall be cooped up here till dinner at this rate.
Ever played piquet? I could teach you in five minutes.”</p>
<p>A look almost of awe came into Hargate’s face—the look of one
who sees a miracle performed before his eyes. For years he had
been using all the large stock of diplomacy at his command to
induce callow youths to play piquet with him, and here was this
<span class="pb" id="Page_133">133</span>
admirable young man, this pearl among young men, positively
offering to teach him the game. It was too much happiness. What
had he done to deserve this? He felt as a toil-worn lion might
feel if some antelope, instead of making its customary bee-line
for the horizon, were to trot up and insert its head between his
jaws.</p>
<p>“I— I shouldn’t mind being shown the idea,” he said.</p>
<p>He listened attentively while Lord Dreever explained at some
length the principles which govern the game of piquet. Every now
and then he asked a question. It was evident that he was beginning
to grasp the idea of the game.</p>
<p>“What exactly is re-piquing?” he asked, as his lordship
paused.</p>
<p>“It’s like this,” said his lordship, returning to his lecture.</p>
<p>“Yes, I see now,” said the neophyte.</p>
<p>They began playing. Lord Dreever, as was only to be expected
in a contest between teacher and student, won the first two hands.
Hargate won the next.</p>
<p>“I’ve got the hang of it all right now,” he said complacently.
“It’s a simple sort of game. Make it more exciting, don’t you
think, if we played for something?”</p>
<p>“All right,” said Lord Dreever slowly; “if you like.”</p>
<p>He would not have suggested it himself, but after all, dash it!
if the man simply asked for it—— It was not his fault if the
winning of a hand should have given the fellow the impression
that he knew all that there was to be known about piquet. Of
course, piquet was a game where skill was practically bound to
win. But—— After all, Hargate probably had plenty of money.
He could afford it.</p>
<p>“All right,” said his lordship again. “How much?”</p>
<p>“Something fairly moderate. Ten bob a hundred?”</p>
<p>There is no doubt that his lordship ought, at this suggestion,
to have corrected the novice’s notion that ten shillings a hundred
was fairly moderate. He knew that it was possible for a poor
player to lose four hundred points in a twenty minutes’ game,
and usual for him to lose two hundred. But he let the thing go.</p>
<p>“Very well,” he said.</p>
<p>Twenty minutes later Hargate was looking somewhat ruefully
at the score-sheet. “I owe you eighteen shillings,” he said. “Shall
I pay you now, or shall we settle up in a lump after we’ve
finished?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_134">134</div>
<p>“What about stopping now?” said Lord Dreever. “It’s quite
fine out.”</p>
<p>“No; let’s go on. I’ve nothing to do till dinner, and I don’t
suppose you have.”</p>
<p>His lordship’s conscience made one last effort.</p>
<p>“You’d much better stop, you know, Hargate, really,” he said.
“You can lose a frightful lot at this game.”</p>
<p>“My dear Dreever,” said Hargate stiffly, “I can look after
myself, thanks. Of course, if you think you are risking too much,
by all means——”</p>
<p>“Oh, if you don’t mind,” said his lordship, outraged, “I’m
only too frightfully pleased. Only remember I warned you.”</p>
<p>“I’ll bear it in mind. By the way, before we start, care to make
it a sovereign a hundred?”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever could not afford to play piquet for a sovereign a
hundred, or, indeed, to play piquet for money at all; but after his
adversary’s innuendo it was impossible for a young gentleman of
spirit to admit the humiliating fact. He nodded.</p>
<p>“About time, I fancy,” said Hargate, looking at his watch an
hour later, “that we were going in to dress for dinner.”</p>
<p>His lordship made no reply. He was wrapped in thought.</p>
<p>“Let’s see, that’s twenty pounds you owe me, isn’t it?” continued
Hargate. “Shocking bad luck you had.”</p>
<p>They went out into the rose-garden.</p>
<p>“Jolly everything smells after the rain,” said Hargate, who
seemed to have struck a conversational patch. “Freshened everything
up.”</p>
<p>His lordship did not appear to have noticed it. He seemed to be
thinking of something else. His air was pensive and abstracted.</p>
<p>“There’s just time,” said Hargate, looking at his watch again,
“for a short stroll. I want to have a talk with you.”</p>
<p>“Oh!” said Lord Dreever.</p>
<p>His air did not belie his feelings. He looked pensive, and he
was pensive. It was deuced awkward, this twenty pounds business.</p>
<p>Hargate was watching him covertly. It was his business to
know other people’s business, and he knew that Lord Dreever
was impecunious, and depended for supplies entirely on a
prehensile uncle. For the success of the proposal he was about to
make he relied on this fact.</p>
<p>“Who’s this man Pitt?” asked Hargate.</p>
<p>“Oh, pal of mine,” said his lordship. “Why?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_135">135</div>
<p>“I can’t stand the fellow.”</p>
<p>“I think he’s a good chap,” said his lordship. “In fact,”
remembering Jimmy’s Good Samaritanism, “I know he is. Why
don’t you like him?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know. I don’t.”</p>
<p>“Oh!” said his lordship indifferently. He was in no mood to
listen to the likes and dislikes of other men.</p>
<p>“Look here, Dreever,” said Hargate, “I want you to do something
for me—I want you to get Pitt out of the place.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever eyed him curiously.</p>
<p>“Eh?” he said. Hargate repeated his remark.</p>
<p>“You seem to have mapped out quite a programme for me,”
said Lord Dreever.</p>
<p>“Get him out of it,” continued Hargate vehemently. Jimmy’s
prohibition against billiards had hit him hard. He was suffering
the torments of Tantalus. The castle was full of young men of the
kind to whom he most resorted—easy marks, every one—and
here he was, simply through Jimmy, careened like a disabled
battleship. It was maddening. “Make him go. You invited him
here. He doesn’t expect to stop indefinitely, I suppose? If you
left, he’d have to, too. What you must do is to go back to London
to-morrow. You can easily make some excuse. He’ll have to go
with you. Then you can drop him in London and come back.
That’s what you must do.”</p>
<p>A delicate pink flush might have been seen to spread itself over
Lord Dreever’s face. He began to look like an angry rabbit. He
had not a great deal of pride in his composition, but the thought
of the ignominious <i>role</i> which Hargate was sketching out for him
stirred what he had to its shallow bottom.</p>
<p>Talking on, Hargate managed to add the last straw.</p>
<p>“Of course,” he said, “that money you lost to me at piquet—what
was it? Twenty? Twenty pounds, wasn’t it? Well, we
would look on that as cancelled, of course. That will be all
right.”</p>
<p>His lordship exploded.</p>
<p>“Will it?” he cried, pink to the ears. “Will it, by George? I’ll
pay you every frightful penny of it to-morrow—and then you
can clear out, instead of Pitt. What do you take me for, I should
like to know?”</p>
<p>“A fool, if you refuse my offer.”</p>
<p>“I’ve a jolly good mind to give you a most frightful kicking.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_136">136</div>
<p>“I shouldn’t try if I were you. It’s not the sort of game you’d
shine at. Better stick to piquet.”</p>
<p>“If you think I can’t pay you your rotten money—”</p>
<p>“I do. But if you can, so much the better. Money is always
useful.”</p>
<p>“I may be a fool in some ways——”</p>
<p>“You understate it, my dear man.”</p>
<p>“But I’m not a cad.”</p>
<p>“You’re getting quite rosy, Dreever. Wrath is good for the
complexion.”</p>
<p>“And if you think you can bribe me, you never made a bigger
mistake in your life.”</p>
<p>“Yes, I did,” said Hargate, “when I thought you had some
glimmerings of intelligence. But if it gives you any pleasure to
behave like the juvenile lead in a melodrama, by all means do.
Personally, I shouldn’t have thought the game would be worth
the candle. But if your keen sense of honour compels you to pay
the twenty pounds, all right. You mentioned to-morrow? That’ll
suit me. So we’ll let it go at that.”</p>
<p>He walked off, leaving Lord Dreever filled with that comfortable
glow which comes to the weak man who for once has
displayed determination. He felt that he must not go back from
his dignified stand-point. That money would have to be paid,
and on the morrow. Hargate was the sort of man who could, and
would, make it exceedingly unpleasant for him if he failed. A
debt of honour was not a thing to be trifled with.</p>
<p>But he felt quite safe. He knew he could get the money when he
pleased. It showed, he reflected philosophically, how out of evil
cometh good. His greater misfortune, the engagement, would, as
it were, neutralise the loss, for it was ridiculous to suppose that
Sir Thomas, having seen his ends accomplished, and being
presumably in a spacious mood in consequence, would not be
amenable to a request for a mere twenty pounds.</p>
<p>He went on into the hall. He felt strong and capable. He had
shown Hargate the stuff there was in him. He was Spennie
Dreever, the man of blood and iron, the man with whom it was
best not to trifle. But it was really, come to think of it, uncommonly
lucky that he was engaged to Molly. He recoiled from the
idea of attempting, unfortified by that fact, to extract twenty
pounds from Sir Thomas for a card debt.</p>
<p>In the hall he met Saunders.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_137">137</div>
<p>“I have been looking for your lordship,” said the butler.</p>
<p>“Eh? Well, here I am.”</p>
<p>“Just so, your lordship. Miss McEachern entrusted me with
this note to deliver to you in the event of her not being able to
see you before dinner personally, your lordship.”</p>
<p>“Right-O. Thanks.”</p>
<p>He started to go upstairs, opening the envelope as he went.
What could the girl be writing to him about? Surely she wasn’t
going to start sending him love-letters or any of that frightful
rot? Deuced difficult it would be to play up to that sort of thing.</p>
<p>He stopped on the landing to read the note, and at the first
line his jaw fell. The envelope fluttered to the ground.</p>
<p>“Oh, my sainted aunt!” he moaned, clutching at the banisters.
“Now I am in the soup!”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_138">138</div>
<h2 id="c21"><span class="small">★ 21 ★</span>
<br /><i>Loathsome Gifts</i></h2>
<p>There are doubtless men so constructed that they can find
themselves accepted suitors without any particular whirl of
emotion. King Solomon probably belonged to this class, and even
Henry VIII must have become a trifle blasé in time. But to the
average man the sensations are complex and overwhelming. A
certain stunned feeling is perhaps predominant. Blended with this
is relief—the relief of a general who has brought a difficult
campaign to a successful end, or a member of a forlorn hope who
finds that the danger is over and that he is still alive. To this must
be added a newly-born sense of magnificence. Our suspicion that
we were something rather out of the ordinary run of men is
suddenly confirmed. Our bosom heaves with complacency, and
the world has nothing more to offer.</p>
<p>With some there is an alloy of apprehension in the metal of
their happiness, and the strain of an engagement sometimes
brings with it even a faint shadow of regret. “She makes me buy
things,” one swain, in the third quarter of his engagement, was
overhead to moan to a friend. “Two new ties only yesterday.” He
seemed to be debating within himself whether human nature
could stand the strain.</p>
<p>But, whatever tragedies may cloud the end of the period, its
beginning at least is bathed in sunshine.</p>
<p>Jimmy, regarding his lathered face in the glass as he dressed for
dinner that night, marvelled at the excellence of this best of all
possible worlds.</p>
<p>No doubts disturbed him. That the relations between Mr.
McEachern and himself offered a permanent bar to his prospects
he did not believe. For the moment he declined to consider the
existence of the ex-constable at all. In a world that contained
Molly there was no room for other people. They were not in the
picture. They did not exist.</p>
<p>To him, musing contentedly over the goodness of life, there
entered, in the furtive manner habitual to that unreclaimed
<span class="pb" id="Page_139">139</span>
buccaneer, Spike Mullins. It may have been that Jimmy read his
own satisfaction and happiness into the faces of others, but it
certainly seemed to him that there was a sort of restrained joyfulness
about Spike’s demeanour. The Bowery boy’s shuffles on
the carpet were almost a dance. His face seemed to glow beneath
his crimson hair.</p>
<p>“Well,” said Jimmy, “and how goes the world with young
Lord FitzMullins? Spike, have you ever been best man?”</p>
<p>“What’s dat, boss?”</p>
<p>“Best man at a wedding—chap who stands by the bridegroom
with a hand on the scruff of his neck to see that he goes through
with it. Fellow who looks after everything, crowds the money on
to the minister at the end of the ceremony, and then goes off and
marries the first bridesmaid and lives happily ever after.”</p>
<p>Spike shook his head.</p>
<p>“I ain’t got no use for gettin’ married, boss.”</p>
<p>“Spike the misogynist! You wait, Spike. Some day love will
awake in your heart, and you’ll start writing poetry.”</p>
<p>“I’se not dat kind of mug, boss,” protested the Bowery boy.
“I ain’t got no use for goils. It’s a mutt’s game.”</p>
<p>This was rank heresy. Jimmy laid down the razor from motives
of prudence, and proceeded to lighten Spike’s reprehensible
darkness.</p>
<p>“Spike, you’re an ass,” he said. “You don’t know anything
about it. If you had any sense at all, you’d understand that the
only thing worth doing in life is to get married. You bone-headed
bachelors make me ill. Think what it would mean to you,
having a wife. Think of going out on a cold winter’s night to
crack a crib, knowing that there would be a cup of hot soup
waiting for you when you got back, and your slippers all warmed
and comfortable. And then she’d sit on your knee, and you’d tell
her how you shot the policeman, and you’d examine the swag
together! Why, I can’t imagine anything cosier. Perhaps there
would be little Spikes running about the house. Can’t you see
them jumping with joy as you slid in through the window and told
the great news? ‘Fahzer’s killed a pleeceman!’ cry the tiny, eager
voices. Sweets are served out all round in honour of the event.
Golden haired little Jimmy Mullins, my godson, gets sixpence
for having thrown a stone at a plain clothes detective that afternoon.
All is joy and wholesome revelry. Take my word for it,
Spike, there’s nothing like domesticity.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_140">140</div>
<p>“Dere was a goil once,” said Spike, meditatively. “Only I was
never her steady. She married a cop.”</p>
<p>“She wasn’t worthy of you, Spike,” said Jimmy sympathetically.
“A girl capable of going to the bad like that would never have done
for you. You must pick up some nice, sympathetic girl with a
romantic admiration for your line of business. Meanwhile, let me
finish shaving, or I shall be late for dinner. Great doings on to-night,
Spike.”</p>
<p>Spike became animated.</p>
<p>“Sure, boss! Dat’s just what——”</p>
<p>“If you could collect all the blue blood that will be under this
roof to-night, Spike, into one vat, you’d be able to start a dyeing
works. Don’t try, though. They mightn’t like it. By the way,
have you seen anything more—of course you have. What I mean
is, have you talked at all with that valet man—the one you think
is a detective?”</p>
<p>“Why, boss, dat’s just——”</p>
<p>“I hope, for his own sake, he’s a better performer than my old
friend Galer. That man is getting on my nerves, Spike. He
pursues me like a smell dog. I expect he’s lurking out in the
passage now. Did you see him?”</p>
<p>“Did I! Boss! Why——”</p>
<p>Jimmy inspected Spike gravely.</p>
<p>“Spike,” he said, “there’s something on your mind. You’re
trying to say something. What is it? Out with it.”</p>
<p>Spike’s excitement vented itself in a rush of words.</p>
<p>“Gee, boss! There’s bin doin’s to-night for fair. Me coco’s
still buzzin’. Sure t’ing! Why, say, when I was to Sir Tummas’s
dressing-room dis afternoon——”</p>
<p>“What!”</p>
<p>“Surest t’ing, you know. Just before de storm come on, when
it was all as dark as could be. Well, I was——”</p>
<p>Jimmy interrupted.</p>
<p>“In Sir Thomas’s dressing-room! What——”</p>
<p>Spike looked somewhat embarrassed. He grinned apologetically
and shuffled his feet.</p>
<p>“I’ve got dem, boss,” he said, with a smirk.</p>
<p>“Got them? Got what?”</p>
<p>“Dese.”</p>
<p>He plunged his hand in his pocket and drew forth, in a glittering
mass, Lady Julia Blunt’s rope of diamonds.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_141">141</div>
<h2 id="c22"><span class="small">★ 22 ★</span>
<br /><i>How Two of a Trade did not Agree</i></h2>
<p>“One hundred t’ousand plunks,” murmured Spike, gazing
lovingly at them. “I says to meself, ‘De boss ain’t got no
time to be gettin’ after dem himself. He’s too busy dese days wit
jollyin’ along de swells. So it’s up to me,’ I says, ‘’cos de boss’ll
be tickled to deat’, all right, all right, if we can git away wit dem.’
So I——”</p>
<p>Jimmy gave tongue with an energy which amazed his faithful
follower. The nightmare horror of the situation had affected him
much as a sudden blow in the parts about the waistcoat might
have done. But now, as Spike would have said, he caught up
with his breath. The smirk faded slowly from the other’s face as
he listened. Not even in the Bowery, full as it was of candid
friends, had he listened to such a trenchant summing-up of his
mental and moral deficiencies.</p>
<p>“Boss!” he protested.</p>
<p>“That’s just a sketchy outline,” said Jimmy, pausing for
breath. “I can’t do you justice impromptu like this. You’re too
vast and overwhelming.”</p>
<p>“But, boss, what’s eatin’ you? Ain’t youse tickled?”</p>
<p>“Tickled!” Jimmy sawed the air. “Tickled! You lunatic!
Can’t you see what you’ve done?”</p>
<p>“I’ve got dem,” said Spike, whose mind was not readily
receptive of new ideas. It seemed to him that Jimmy missed the
main point.</p>
<p>“Didn’t I tell you there was nothing doing when you wanted
to take those things the other day?”</p>
<p>Spike’s face cleared. As he had suspected, Jimmy had missed
the point.</p>
<p>“Why, say, boss, yes—sure. But dose was little dinky t’ings.
Of course, youse wouldn’t stand for swipin’ chicken-feed like
dem. But dese is different. Dese di’monds is boids. It’s one
hundred thousand plunks fer dese.”</p>
<p>“Spike!” said Jimmy, with painful calm.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_142">142</div>
<p>“Huh?”</p>
<p>“Will you listen for a moment?”</p>
<p>“Sure.”</p>
<p>“I know it’s practically hopeless. To get an idea into your head
one wants a proper outfit—drills, blasting-powder, and so on.
But there’s just a chance, perhaps, if I talk slowly. Has it occurred
to you, Spike—my bonny, blue-eyed Spike—that every other
man, more or less, in this stately home of England is a detective
who has probably received instructions to watch you like a lynx?
Do you imagine that your blameless past is a sufficient safeguard?
I suppose you think that these detectives will say to themselves,
‘Now, whom shall we suspect? We must leave out Spike Mullins,
of course, because he naturally wouldn’t dream of doing such a
thing. It can’t be dear old Spike who’s got the stuff.’”</p>
<p>“But, boss,” interposed Spike brightly. “I ain’t! Dat’s right—I
ain’t got it. Youse has!”</p>
<p>Jimmy looked at him with reluctant admiration. After all, there
was a breezy delirium about Spike’s methods of thought which
was rather stimulating when you got used to it. The worst of it
was that it did not fit in with practical, everyday life. Under
different conditions—say, during convivial evenings at Colney
Hatch—he could imagine the Bowery boy being a charming
companion. How pleasantly, for instance, such remarks as that
last would while away the monotony of a padded cell!</p>
<p>“But, laddie,” he said, with steely affection, “listen once more.
Reflect! Ponder! Does it not seep into your consciousness that
we are, as it were, subtly connected in this house in the minds of
certain bad persons? Are we not imagined by Mr. McEachern,
for instance, to be working hand in hand like brothers? Do you
fancy that Mr. McEachern, chatting with his tame sleuth-hound
over their cigars, will have been reticent on this point? I think
not. How do you propose to baffle that gentlemanly sleuth, Spike,
who, I may mention once again, has rarely moved more than two
yards away from me since his arrival?”</p>
<p>An involuntary chuckle escaped Spike.</p>
<p>“Sure, boss, dat’s all right!”</p>
<p>“All right, is it? Well, well! What makes you think it is all
right?”</p>
<p>“Why, say, boss, dose sleuts is out of business.” A merry grin
split his face. “It’s funny, boss! Gee, it’s got a circus skinned!
Listen! Deyse bin an’ arrest each other.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_143">143</div>
<p>Jimmy moodily revised his former view. Even in Colney
Hatch this sort of thing would be coldly received. Genius must
ever walk alone. Spike would have to get along without any hope
of meeting a kindred spirit, a fellow-being in tune with his brain-processes.</p>
<p>“Dat’s right,” chuckled Spike. “Leastways, it ain’t.”</p>
<p>“No, no,” said Jimmy soothingly. “I quite understand.”</p>
<p>“It’s dis way, boss. One of dem has bin an’ arrest de odder mug.
Dey had a scrap, each t’inking de odder guy was after de jools, an’
not knowin’ dey was bote sleuts, an’ now one of dem’s bin an’
taken de odder off, an’”—there were tears of innocent joy in his
eyes—“an’ locked him into de coal-cellar.”</p>
<p>“What on earth do you mean?”</p>
<p>Spike giggled helplessly.</p>
<p>“Listen, boss! It’s dis way. Gee, it beat de band. When it’s all
dark, ’cos of de storm comin’ on, I’m in de dressin’-room chasin’
around for de jool-box, and just as I gets a line on it—gee!— I
hears a footstep coming down de passage, very soft, straight for
de door. Was I to de bad? Dat’s right. I says to meself, ‘Here’s
one of de sleut guys what’s bin and got wise to me, an’ he’s comin’
in to put de grip on me,’ so I gets up quick, an’ I hides behind a
coitain. Dere’s a coitain at de side of de room. Dere’s dude suits
an t’ings hangin’ behind it. I chases meself in dere, and stands
waitin’ for de sleut to come in, ’cos den, you see, I’m goin’ to
try an’ get busy before he can see who I am—it’s pretty dark
’cos of de storm—an’ jolt him one on de point of de jaw, an’ den,
while he’s down an’ out, chase meself fer de soivants’ hall.”</p>
<p>“Yes?” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Well, dis guy, he gets to de door and opens it, and I’m just
gettin’ ready for one sudden boist of speed when dere jumps out
from de room on de odder side de passage—you know de room—anodder
guy, an’ gets de rapid strangleholt on de foist mug. Say,
wouldn’t dat make youse glad you hadn’t gone to de circus?
Honest, it was better dan Coney Island.”</p>
<p>“Go on. What happened then?”</p>
<p>“Day falls to scrappin’ good and hard. Dey couldn’t see me,
an’ I couldn’t see dem, but I could hear dem bumpin’ about and
sluggin’ each odder to beat de band. And by and by one of de
mugs puts de odder mug to de bad, so dat he goes down and
takes de count; and den I hears a click. And I know what dat is.
It’s one of de gazebos has put de irons on de odder gazebo.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_144">144</div>
<p>“Call them A and B,” suggested Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Den I hears him—de foist mug—strike a light, ’cos it’s dark
dere ’cos of de storm, an’ den he says, ‘Got youse, have I?’ he
says. ‘I’ve had my eye on you, t’inkin’ youse was up to somet’ing
of dis kind. I’ve bin watchin’ youse!’ I knew de voice. It’s dat
mug what calls himself Sir Tummas’s vally. And de odder——”</p>
<p>Jimmy burst into a roar of laughter.</p>
<p>“Don’t, Spike! This is more than man was meant to stand. Do
you mean to tell me that it is my bright, brainy, persevering friend
Galer who has been handcuffed and locked in the coal-cellar?”</p>
<p>“Sure, dat’s right,” he said.</p>
<p>“It’s a judgment,” said Jimmy delightedly—“that’s what it is.
No man has a right to be such a consummate ass as Galer. It
isn’t decent.”</p>
<p>There had been moments when McEachern’s faithful employé
had filled Jimmy with an odd sort of fury, a kind of hurt pride,
almost to the extent of making him wish that he really could have
been the desperado McEachern fancied him. Never in his life
before had he sat still under a challenge, and this espionage had
been one. Behind the clumsy watcher he had seen always the
self-satisfied figure of McEachern. If there had been anything
subtle about the man from Dodson’s he could have forgiven him;
but there was not. Years of practice had left Spike with a sort of
sixth sense as regarded representatives of the law. He could
pierce the most cunning disguise. But in the case of Galer even
Jimmy could detect the detective.</p>
<p>“Go on,” he said.</p>
<p>Spike proceeded.</p>
<p>“Well, de odder mug, de one down and out on de floor wit de
irons on——”</p>
<p>“Galer, in fact,” said Jimmy. “Handsome, dashing Galer!”</p>
<p>“Sure. Well, he’s too busy catchin’ up wit his breat’ to shoot it
back swift, but after he’s bin doin’ de deep-breathin’ stunt for a
while he says, ‘You mutt,’ he says, ‘youse is to de bad. You’re
made a break, you have. Dat’s right. Surest t’ing you know.’ He
puts it different, but dat’s what he means. ‘I’m a sleut,’ he says.
‘Take dese t’ings off!’—meanin’ de irons. Does de odder mug, de
vally gazebo, give him de glad eye? Not so’s you could notice it.
He gives him de merry ha-ha. He says dat dat’s de woist tale
dat’s ever bin handed to him. ‘Tell it to Sweeney!’ he says. ‘I
knows youse. You woims yourself into de house as a guest, when
<span class="pb" id="Page_145">145</span>
youse is really after de loidy’s jools.’ At dese crool woids de odder
mug, Galer, gits hot under de collar. ‘I’m a sure ’nough sleut,’ he
says. ‘I blows into dis house at de special request of Mr. McEachern,
de American gent.’ De odder mug hands him de lemon
again. ‘Tell it to de King of Denmark,’ he says. ‘Dis cops de
limit. Youse has enough gall for ten strong men,’ he says. ‘Show
me to Mr. McEachern,’ says Galer. ‘He’ll——crouch,’ is dat it?”</p>
<p>“Vouch?” suggested Jimmy. “Meaning give the glad hand to.”</p>
<p>“Dat’s right—vouch. I wondered what he meant at de time.
‘He’ll vouch for me,’ he says. Dat puts him all right, he t’inks;
but no, he’s still in Dutch, ’cos de vally mug says, ‘Nix on dat! I
ain’t goin’ to chase around de house wit youse, lookin’ for Mr.
McEachern. It’s youse for de coal-cellar, me man, an’ we’ll see
what youse has to say when I makes me report to Sir Tummas.’
‘Well, dat’s to de good,’ says Galer. ‘Tell Sir Tummas. I’ll
explain to him.’ ‘Not me!’ says de vally. ‘Sir Tummas has a hard
evening’s woik before him, jollyin’ along de swells what’s comin’
to see dis stoige-piece dey’re actin’. I ain’t goin’ to worry him till
he’s good and ready. To de coal-cellar for yours! G’wan!’ and off
dey goes! And I gets busy again, swipes de jools, and chases
meself here.”</p>
<p>“Have you ever heard of poetic justice, Spike?” he asked.
“This is it. But in this hour of mirth and good will we must not
forget——”</p>
<p>Spike interrupted.</p>
<p>Beaming with honest pleasure at the enthusiastic reception of
his narrative, he proceeded to point out the morals that were to be
deduced therefrom.</p>
<p>“So youse see, boss,” he said, “it’s all to de merry. When dey
rubbers for de jools and finds dem gone, dey’ll t’ink dis Galer
guy swiped dem. Dey won’t t’ink of us.”</p>
<p>Jimmy looked at him gravely.</p>
<p>“Of course,” said he. “What a reasoner you are, Spike! Galer
was just opening the door from the outside, by your account,
when the valet-man sprang at him. Naturally they’ll think that he
took the jewels, especially as they won’t find them on him. A
man who can open a locked safe through a closed door is just the
sort of fellow who would be able to get rid of the swag neatly
while rolling about the floor with the valet. His not having the
jewels will make the case all the blacker against him. And what
will make them still more certain that he is the thief is that he
<span class="pb" id="Page_146">146</span>
really is a detective. Spike, you ought to be in some sort of a
home, you know.”</p>
<p>The Bowery boy looked disturbed.</p>
<p>“I didn’t t’ink of dat, boss,” he admitted.</p>
<p>“Of course not. One can’t think of everything. Now, if you
will just hand me those diamonds, I will put them back where
they belong.”</p>
<p>“Put dem back, boss!”</p>
<p>“What else would you propose? I’d get you to do it, only I
don’t think putting things back is much in your line.”</p>
<p>Spike handed over the jewels. The boss was the boss, and what
he said went. But his demeanour was tragic, telling eloquently of
hopes blighted.</p>
<p>Jimmy took the necklace with something of a thrill. He was a
connoisseur of jewels, and a fine gem affected him much as a fine
picture affects the artistic. He ran the diamonds through his
fingers, then scrutinized them again, more closely this time.</p>
<p>Spike watched him with a slight return of hope. It seemed to
him that the boss was wavering. Perhaps, now that he had actually
handled the jewels, he would find it impossible to give them up.
To Spike a diamond necklace of cunning workmanship was
merely the equivalent of so many “plunks”; but he knew that
there were men, otherwise sane, who valued a jewel for its own
sake.</p>
<p>“It’s a boid of a necklace, boss,” he murmured encouragingly.</p>
<p>“It is,” said Jimmy. “In its way I’ve never seen anything much
better. Sir Thomas will be glad to have it back.”</p>
<p>“Den you’re going to put it back, boss?”</p>
<p>“I am,” said Jimmy. “I’ll do it just before the theatricals; there
should be a chance then. There’s one good thing—this afternoon’s
affair will have cleared the air of sleuth-hounds a little.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_147">147</div>
<h2 id="c23"><span class="small">★ 23 ★</span>
<br /><i>Family Jars</i></h2>
<p>Hildebrand Spencer Poyns de Burgh John Hannasyde
Coombe-Crombie, twelfth Earl of Dreever, was feeling like
a toad under the harrow. He read the letter again, but a second
perusal made it no better. Very briefly and clearly Molly had
broken off the engagement. She “thought it best”; she was
“afraid it could make neither of us happy.” All very true, thought
his lordship miserably. His sentiments to a T. At the proper
time nothing he would have liked better. But why seize for this
declaration the precise moment when he was intending, on the
strength of the engagement, to separate his uncle from twenty
pounds? That was what rankled. That Molly could have no
knowledge of his sad condition did not occur to him. He had a
sort of feeling that she ought to have known by instinct. Nature,
as has been pointed out, had equipped Hildebrand Spencer
Poyns de Burgh with one of those cheap-substitute minds. What
passed for brain in him was to genuine grey matter what just-as-good
imitation coffee is to real Mocha. In moments of emotion
and mental distress, consequently, his reasoning, like Spike’s,
was apt to be in a class of its own.</p>
<p>He read the letter for the third time, and a gentle perspiration
began to form on his forehead. This was awful. The presumable
jubilation of Katie, the penniless ripper of the Savoy, when he
should present himself to her a free man, did not enter into the
mental picture that was unfolding before him. She was too remote.
Between him and her lay the fearsome figure of Sir Thomas,
rampant, filling the entire horizon. Nor is this to be wondered at.
There was probably a brief space during which Perseus, concentrating
his gaze upon the monster, did not see Andromeda;
and a knight of the Middle Ages, jousting in the gentlemen’s
singles for a smile from his lady, rarely allowed the thought of
that smile to occupy his whole mind at the moment when his
boiler-plated antagonist was descending upon him in the wake of
a sharp spear.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_148">148</div>
<p>So with Spennie Dreever. Bright eyes might shine for him
when all was over, but in the meantime what seemed to him more
important was that bulging eyes would glare.</p>
<p>If only this had happened later—even a day later! The reckless
impulsiveness of the modern girl had undone him. How was he to
pay Hargate his money? Hargate must be paid—that was certain;
no other course was possible. Lord Dreever’s was not one of those
natures which fret restlessly under debt. During his early career
at college he had endeared himself to the local tradesmen by the
magnitude of the liabilities he had contracted with them. It was
not the being in debt that he minded, it was the consequences.
Hargate, he felt instinctively, was of a revengeful nature. He had
given Hargate twenty pounds’ worth of snubbing, and the latter
had presented the bill. If it were not paid things would happen.
Hargate and he were members of the same club, and a member of
a club who loses money at cards to a fellow-member and fails to
settle up does not make himself popular with the committee.</p>
<p>He must get the money—there was no avoiding that conclusion—but
how?</p>
<p>Financially, his lordship was like a fallen country with a glorious
history. There had been a time, during his first two years at
college, when he had revelled in the luxury of a handsome allowance.
This was the golden age, when Sir Thomas Blunt, being, so
to speak, new to the job, and feeling that, having reached the best
circles, he must live up to them, had scattered largesse lavishly.
For two years after his marriage with Lady Julia he had maintained
this admirable standard, crushing his natural parsimony.
He had regarded the money so spent as capital sunk in an investment.
By the end of the second year he had found his feet, and
began to look about him for ways of retrenchment. His lordship’s
allowance was an obvious way. He had not to wait long for an
excuse for annihilating it. There is a game called poker, at which a
man without much control over his features may exceed the
limits of the handsomest allowance. His lordship’s face during a
game of poker was like the surface of some quiet pond, ruffled by
every breeze. The blank despair of his expression when he held
bad cards made bluffing expensive. The honest joy that bubbled
over in his eyes when his hand was good acted as an efficient
danger-signal to his grateful opponents. Two weeks of poker had
led to his writing to his uncle a distressed but confident request
for more funds; and the avuncular foot had come down with a
<span class="pb" id="Page_149">149</span>
joyous bang. Taking his stand on the evils of gambling, Sir
Thomas had changed the conditions of the money-market for his
nephew with a thoroughness that effectually prevented the possibility
of his being again led astray by the fascinations of poker.
The allowance vanished absolutely, and in its place there came
into being an arrangement. By this his lordship was to have
whatever money he wished for, but he must ask for it, and state
why it was needed. If the request were reasonable, the cash would
be forthcoming; if preposterous, it would not. The flaw in the
scheme, from his lordship’s point of view, was the difference of
opinion which can exist in the minds of two men as to what the
words reasonable and preposterous may be taken to mean.</p>
<p>Twenty pounds, for instance, would, in the lexicon of Sir
Thomas Blunt, be perfectly reasonable for the current expenses of
a man engaged to Molly McEachern, but preposterous for one to
whom she had declined to remain engaged. It is these subtle
shades of meaning which make the English language so full of
pitfalls for the foreigner.</p>
<p>So engrossed was his lordship in his meditations that it was not
till a voice spoke at his elbow that he was aware that Sir Thomas
himself was standing by his side.</p>
<p>“Well, Spennie, my boy,” said the knight. “Time to dress for
dinner, I think. Eh? Eh?”</p>
<p>He was plainly in high good-humour. The thought of the
distinguished company he was to entertain that night had changed
him temporarily, as with some wave of a fairy wand, into a thing
of joviality and benevolence. One could almost hear the milk of
human kindness gurgling and splashing within him. The irony of
Fate! To-night—such was his mood—a dutiful nephew could
have come and felt his pockets and helped himself—if circumstances
had been different. Oh, woman, woman, how you bar us
from Paradise!</p>
<p>His lordship gurgled a wordless reply, thrusting the fateful
letter hastily into his pocket. He would break the news anon—soon.
Not yet—later on; in fact, anon.</p>
<p>“Up in your part, my boy?” continued Sir Thomas. “You
mustn’t spoil the play by forgetting your lines. That wouldn’t
do.”</p>
<p>His eye was caught by the envelope which Spennie had dropped.
A momentary relapse from the jovial and benevolent was the
result. His fussy little soul abhorred small untidinesses.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_150">150</div>
<p>“Dear me,” he said, stooping, “I wish people would not drop
paper about the house. I cannot endure a litter.”</p>
<p>He spoke as if somebody had been playing hare-and-hounds
and scattering the scent on the stairs. This sort of thing sometimes
made him regret the old days. In Blunt’s Stores Rule 67
imposed a fine of half a crown on employés convicted of paper-dropping.</p>
<p>“I——” began his lordship.</p>
<p>“Why”—Sir Thomas straightened himself—“it’s addressed to
you!”</p>
<p>“I was just going to pick it up. It’s—er—there was a note in it.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas Blunt gazed at the envelope again. Joviality and
benevolence resumed their thrones.</p>
<p>“And the feminine handwriting,” he chuckled. He eyed the
limp peer almost roguishly. “I see, I see,” he said. “Very charming.
Quite delightful! Girls must have their little romance. I
suppose you two young people are exchanging love-letters all
day? Delightful—quite delightful! Don’t look as if you were
ashamed of it, my boy. I like it. I think it’s charming.”</p>
<p>Undoubtedly this was the opening. Beyond a question his
lordship should have said at this point, “Uncle, I cannot tell a lie.
I cannot even allow myself to see you labouring under a delusion
which a word from me can remove. The contents of this note are
not what you suppose. They run as follows——”</p>
<p>What he did say was, “Uncle, can you let me have twenty
pounds?”</p>
<p>Those were his amazing words. They slipped out. He could
not stop them.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas was taken aback for an instant, but not seriously.
He started as might a man who, stroking a cat, receives a sudden
but trifling scratch.</p>
<p>“Twenty pounds, eh?” he said reflectively.</p>
<p>Then the milk of human kindness swept over displeasure like a
tidal wave. This was a night for rich gifts to the deserving.</p>
<p>“Why, certainly, my boy, certainly. Do you want it at once?”</p>
<p>His lordship replied that he did, please; and he had seldom said
a thing more fervently.</p>
<p>“Well, well. We’ll see what we can do. Come with me.”</p>
<p>He led the way to his dressing-room. Like nearly all the rooms
at the castle, it was large. One wall was completely hidden by the
curtain behind which Spike had taken refuge that afternoon.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_151">151</div>
<p>Sir Thomas went to the dressing-table and unlocked a small
drawer.</p>
<p>“Twenty, you said? Five—ten—fifteen—here you are, my boy.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever muttered his thanks. Sir Thomas accepted the
guttural acknowledgment with a friendly pat on the shoulder.</p>
<p>“I like a little touch like that,” he said.</p>
<p>His lordship looked startled.</p>
<p>“I wouldn’t have touched you,” he began, “if it hadn’t
been——”</p>
<p>“A little touch like that letter-writing,” Sir Thomas went on.
“It shows a warm heart. She is a warm-hearted girl, Spennie—a
charming, warm-hearted girl! You’re uncommonly lucky, my
boy.”</p>
<p>His lordship, crackling the four bank-notes, silently agreed
with him.</p>
<p>“But come, I must be dressing. Dear me, it is very late. We
shall have to hurry. By the way, my boy, I shall take the opportunity
of making a public announcement of the engagement
to-night. It will be a capital occasion for it, I think, perhaps, at the
conclusion of the theatricals, a little speech—something quite
impromptu and informal, just asking them to wish you happiness,
and so on. I like the idea. There is an old-world air about it that
appeals to me. Yes.”</p>
<p>He turned to the dressing-table and removed his collar.</p>
<p>“Well, run along, my boy,” he said. “You must not be
late.”</p>
<p>His lordship tottered from the room. He did quite an unprecedented
amount of thinking as he hurried into his evening
clothes; but the thought which occurred most frequently was
that, whatever happened, all was well in one way, at any rate. He
had the twenty pounds. There would be something colossal in
the shape of disturbances when his uncle learned the truth. It
would be the biggest thing since the San Francisco earthquake.
But what of it? He had the money.</p>
<p>He slipped it into his waistcoat pocket. He would take it down
with him, and pay Hargate directly after dinner.</p>
<p>He left the room. The flutter of a skirt caught his eye as he
reached the landing. A girl was coming down the corridor on the
other side. He waited at the head of the stairs to let her go down
before him. As she came on to the landing he saw that it was
Molly.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_152">152</div>
<p>For a moment there was an awkward pause.</p>
<p>“Er—I got your note,” said his lordship.</p>
<p>She looked at him, and then burst out laughing.</p>
<p>“You know you don’t mind the least little bit,” she said—“not
a scrap. Now, do you?”</p>
<p>“Well, you see——”</p>
<p>“Don’t make excuses. Do you?”</p>
<p>“Well, it’s like this, you see. I——”</p>
<p>He caught her eye. Next moment they were laughing together.</p>
<p>“No; but look here, you know,” said his lordship. “What I
mean is, it isn’t that I don’t—I mean, look here, there’s no
reason why we shouldn’t be the best of pals.”</p>
<p>“Why, of course there isn’t.”</p>
<p>“No, really, I say? That’s ripping. Shake hands on it.”</p>
<p>They clasped hands; and it was in this affecting attitude that
Sir Thomas Blunt, bustling downstairs, discovered them.</p>
<p>“Aha!” he cried archly. “Well, well, well! But don’t mind me,
don’t mind me!”</p>
<p>Molly flushed uncomfortably; partly because she disliked Sir
Thomas even when he was not arch, and hated him when he was:
partly because she felt foolish; and principally because she was
bewildered. She had not looked forward to meeting Sir Thomas
that night. It was always unpleasant meeting him, but it would be
more unpleasant than usual after she had upset the scheme for
which he had worked so earnestly. She had wondered whether he
would be cold and distant or voluble and heated. In her pessimistic
moments she had anticipated a long and painful scene.
That he should be behaving like this was not very much short of a
miracle. She could not understand it.</p>
<p>A glance at Lord Dreever enlightened her. That miserable
creature was wearing the air of a timid child about to pull a large
cracker. He seemed to be bracing himself up for an explosion.</p>
<p>She pitied him sincerely. So he had not told his uncle the news
yet! Of course, he had scarcely had time. Saunders must have
given him the note as he was going up to dress.</p>
<p>However, there was no use in prolonging the agony. Sir
Thomas must be told sooner or later. She was glad of the chance
to tell him herself. She would be able to explain that it was all her
doing.</p>
<p>“I’m afraid there’s a mistake,” she said.</p>
<p>“Eh?” said Sir Thomas.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_153">153</div>
<p>“I’ve been thinking it over, and I came to the conclusion that
we weren’t——Well, I broke off the engagement.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas’s always prominent eyes protruded still farther.
The colour of his florid face deepened. Suddenly he chuckled.</p>
<p>Molly looked at him amazed. Sir Thomas was indeed behaving
unexpectedly to-night.</p>
<p>“I see it,” he wheezed. “You’re having a joke with me! So this
is what you were hatching as I came downstairs! Don’t tell me!
If you had really thrown him over you wouldn’t have been
laughing together like that. It’s no good, my dear. I might have
been taken in if I had not seen you, but I did.”</p>
<p>“No, no,” cried Molly. “You’re wrong—you’re quite wrong.
When you saw us we were just agreeing that we should be very
good friends—that was all. I broke off the engagement before
that. I——”</p>
<p>She was aware that his lordship had emitted a hollow croak,
but she took it as his method of endorsing her statement—not as
a warning.</p>
<p>“I wrote Lord Dreever a note this evening,” she went on,
“telling him that I couldn’t possibly——”</p>
<p>She broke off in alarm. With the beginning of her last speech
Sir Thomas had begun to swell, until now he looked as if he
were in imminent danger of bursting. His face was purple. To
Molly’s lively imagination his eyes appeared to move slowly out
of his head, like a snail’s. From the back of his throat came strange
noises.</p>
<p>“S-s-so——” he stammered.</p>
<p>He gulped and tried again.</p>
<p>“So this,” he said, “so this—so that was what was in that
letter, eh?”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever smiled weakly.</p>
<p>“Eh?” yelled Sir Thomas.</p>
<p>His lordship started convulsively.</p>
<p>“Er—yes,” he said. “Yes, yes—that was it, don’t you know!”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas eyed him with a baleful stare. Molly looked from
one to the other in bewilderment.</p>
<p>There was a pause, during which Sir Thomas seemed partially
to recover command of himself. Doubts as to the propriety of a
family row in mid-stairs appeared to occur to him. He moved
forward.</p>
<p>“Come with me,” he said, with awful curtness.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_154">154</div>
<p>His lordship followed bonelessly. Molly watched them go, and
wondered more than ever. There was something behind this. It
was not merely the breaking-off of the engagement that had
roused Sir Thomas. He was not a just man, but he was just
enough to be able to see that the blame was not Lord Dreever’s.
There had been something more. She was puzzled.</p>
<p>In the hall Saunders was standing, weapon in hand, about to
beat the gong.</p>
<p>“Not yet!” snapped Sir Thomas. “Wait!”</p>
<p>Dinner had been ordered especially early that night because of
the theatricals. The necessity for strict punctuality had been
straitly enjoined upon Saunders. At some inconvenience he had
ensured strict punctuality. And now—— But we all have our
cross to bear in this world. Saunders bowed with dignified
resignation.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas led the way into his study.</p>
<p>“Be so good as to close the door,” he said.</p>
<p>His lordship was so good.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas backed to the mantelpiece and stood there in the
attitude which for generations has been sacred to the elderly
Briton—feet well apart, hands clasped beneath his coat tails. His
stare raked Lord Dreever like a searchlight.</p>
<p>“Now, sir!” he said.</p>
<p>His lordship wilted before his gaze.</p>
<p>“The fact is, uncle——”</p>
<p>“Never mind the facts. I know them! What I require is an
explanation.”</p>
<p>He spread his feet farther apart. The years had rolled back, and
he was plain Thomas Blunt again, of Blunt’s Stores, dealing with
an erring employé.</p>
<p>“You know what I mean,” he went on. “I am not referring to
the breaking-off of the engagement. What I insist upon learning
is your reason for failing to inform me earlier of the contents of
that letter.”</p>
<p>His lordship said that somehow, don’t you know, there didn’t
seem to be a chance, you know. He had several times been on the
point—but—well, somehow—— Well, that’s how it was.</p>
<p>“No chance?” cried Sir Thomas. “Indeed! Why did you require
that money I gave you?”</p>
<p>“Oh—er—I wanted it for something.”</p>
<p>“Very possibly. For what?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_155">155</div>
<p>“I—the fact is, I owed it to a fellow.”</p>
<p>“Ha! How did you come to owe it?”</p>
<p>His lordship shuffled.</p>
<p>“You have been gambling,” boomed Sir Thomas. “Am I
right?”</p>
<p>“No, no! I say, no, no. It wasn’t gambling—it was a game of
skill. We were playing piquet.”</p>
<p>“Kindly refrain from quibbling. You lost this money at cards,
then, as I supposed. Just so.”</p>
<p>He widened the space between his feet. He intensified his glare.
He might have been posing to an illustrator of <i>The Pilgrim’s
Progress</i> for a picture of “Apollyon straddling right across the
way”.</p>
<p>“So,” he said, “you deliberately concealed from me the contents
of that letter, in order that you might extract money from
me under false pretences? Don’t speak!” (his lordship had
gurgled). “You did! Your behaviour was that of a—of a——”</p>
<p>There was a very fair selection of evil-doers in all branches of
business from which to choose. He gave the preference to the
race-track.</p>
<p>“Of a common welsher,” he concluded. “But I won’t put up
with it. No; not for an instant. I insist upon you returning that
money to me here and now. If you have not got it with you, go
and fetch it.”</p>
<p>His lordship’s face betrayed the deepest consternation. He had
been prepared for much, but not for this. That he would have to
undergo what, in his school-days, he would have called a “jaw”
was inevitable, and he had been ready to go through with it. It
might hurt his feelings, possibly, but it would leave his purse
intact. A ghastly development of this kind he had not foreseen.</p>
<p>“But, I say, uncle!” he bleated.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas silenced him with a grand gesture.</p>
<p>Ruefully his lordship produced his little all. Sir Thomas
took it with a snort and went to the door.</p>
<p>Saunders was still brooding statuesquely over the gong.</p>
<p>“Sound it!” said Sir Thomas.</p>
<p>Saunders obeyed him with the air of an unleashed hound.</p>
<p>“And now,” said Sir Thomas, “go to my dressing-room and
place these notes in the small drawer of the table.”</p>
<p>The butler’s calm, expressionless, yet withal observant eye
took in at a glance the signs of trouble. Neither the inflated air of
<span class="pb" id="Page_156">156</span>
Sir Thomas nor the punctured-balloon bearing of Lord Dreever
escaped him.</p>
<p>“Something hup,” he said to his immortal soul as he moved
upstairs. “Been a fair old, rare old row, seems to me.”</p>
<p>He reserved his more polished periods for use in public. In
conversation with his immortal soul he was wont to unbend
somewhat.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_157">157</div>
<h2 id="c24"><span class="small">★ 24 ★</span>
<br /><i>The Treasure-Seeker</i></h2>
<p>Gloom wrapped his lordship about during dinner as with a
garment. He owed twenty pounds; his assets amounted to
seven shillings and fourpence. He thought, and thought again.
Quite an intellectual pallor began to appear on his normally pink
cheeks. Saunders silently sympathetic—he hated Sir Thomas as
an interloper, and entertained for his lordship, under whose father
also he had served, a sort of paternal fondness—was ever at his
elbow with the magic bottle; and to Spennie, emptying and re-emptying
his glass almost mechanically, wine, the healer, brought
an idea. To obtain twenty pounds from any one person of his
acquaintance was impossible; to divide the twenty by four and
persuade a generous quartet to contribute five pounds apiece was
more feasible.</p>
<p>Hope began to stir within him again.</p>
<p>Immediately after dinner he began to flit about the castle like a
family spectre of active habits. The first person he met was
Charteris.</p>
<p>“Halloa, Spennie!” said Charteris. “I wanted to see you. It is
currently reported that you are in love. At dinner you looked as if
you had influenza. What’s your trouble? For goodness’ sake bear
up until the show’s over. Don’t go swooning on the stage, or
anything. Do you know your lines?”</p>
<p>“The fact is,” said his lordship eagerly, “it’s this way. I
happen to want—— Can you lend me a fiver?”</p>
<p>“All I have in the world at this moment,” said Charteris, “is
eleven shillings and a postage-stamp. If the stamp would be of
any use to you as a start——No? You know, it’s from small
beginnings like that great fortunes are amassed. However——”</p>
<p>Two minutes later Lord Dreever had resumed his hunt.</p>
<p>The path of the borrower is a thorny one, especially if, as in the
case of Spennie, his reputation as a payer-back is not of the best.</p>
<p>Spennie, in his time, had extracted small loans from most of his
male acquaintances, rarely repaying the same. He had a tendency
to forget that he had borrowed half-a-crown here to pay a cab fare
<span class="pb" id="Page_158">158</span>
and ten shillings there to settle up for a dinner; and his memory
was not much more retentive of larger sums. This made his
friends somewhat wary. The consequence was that the great
treasure-hunt was a failure from start to finish. He got friendly
smiles, he got honeyed apologies, he got earnest assurances of
goodwill; but he got no money, except from Jimmy Pitt.</p>
<p>He had approached Jimmy in the early stages of the hunt and
Jimmy, being in the mood when he would have lent anything to
anybody, yielded the required five pounds without a murmur.</p>
<p>But what was five pounds? The garment of gloom and the
intellectual pallor were once more prominent when his lordship
repaired to his room to don the loud tweeds which, as Lord
Herbert, he was to wear in the first act.</p>
<p>There was a good deal to be said against stealing, as a habit; but
it cannot be denied that, in certain circumstances, it offers an
admirable solution of a financial difficulty, and, if the penalties
were not so exceedingly unpleasant, it is probable that it would
become far more fashionable than it is.</p>
<p>His lordship’s mind did not turn immediately to this outlet
from his embarrassment. He had never stolen before, and it did
not occur to him directly to do so now. There is a conservative
strain in all of us. But gradually, as it was borne in upon him
that it was the only course possible, unless he were to grovel
before Hargate on the morrow and ask for time to pay—an
unthinkable alternative—he found himself contemplating the
possibility of having to secure the money by unlawful means. By
the time he had finished his theatrical toilet, he had definitely
decided that this was the only thing to be done.</p>
<p>His plan was simple. He knew where the money was—in the
dressing-table in Sir Thomas’s room. He had heard Saunders
instructed to put it there. What could be easier than to go and
get it? Everything was in his favour. Sir Thomas would be downstairs
receiving his guests. The coast would be clear. Why, it was
like finding the money.</p>
<p>Besides, he reflected, as he worked his way through a bottle of
Mumm which he had had the forethought to abstract from the
supper-table as a nerve-steadier, it was not really stealing. Dash
it all, the man had given him the money! It was his own! He had
half a mind—he poured himself out another glass of the elixir—to
give Sir Thomas a jolly good talking to into the bargain. Yes,
dash it all!</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_159">159</div>
<p>He pushed on his cuffs fiercely. The British lion was roused.</p>
<p>A man’s first crime is, as a rule, a shockingly amateurish affair.
Now and then, it is true, we find beginners forging with the
accuracy of old hands or breaking into houses with the finish of
experts. But these are isolated cases. The average tyro lacks
generalship altogether. Spennie Dreever may be cited as a typical
novice. It did not strike him that inquiries might be instituted by
Sir Thomas when he found the money gone, and that suspicion
might conceivably fall upon himself. Courage may be born of
champagne, but rarely prudence.</p>
<p>The theatricals began at half-past eight with a duologue. The
audience had been hustled into their seats, happier than is usual
in such circumstances, owing to the rumour which had been
circulated that the proceedings were to terminate with an informal
dance. The castle was singularly well constructed for such a
purpose. There was plenty of room and a sufficiency of retreat for
those who sat out, in addition to a conservatory large enough to
have married off half the couples in the country.</p>
<p>Spennie’s idea had been to establish an alibi by mingling with
the throng for a few minutes, and then to get through his burglarious
speciality during the duologue, when his absence would not
be noticed. It might be that if he disappeared later in the evening
people would wonder what had become of him.</p>
<p>He lurked about till the last of the audience had taken their
seats. As he was moving off through the hall a hand fell upon his
shoulder. Conscience makes cowards of us all. Spennie bit his
tongue and leaped three inches into the air.</p>
<p>“Halloa, Charteris!” he said gaspingly.</p>
<p>Charteris appeared to be in a somewhat overwrought condition.
Rehearsals had turned him into a pessimist, and now that
the actual moment of production had arrived his nerves were in a
thoroughly jumpy condition, especially as the duologue was to
begin in two minutes and the obliging person who had undertaken
to prompt had disappeared.</p>
<p>“Spennie,” said Charteris, “where are you off to?”</p>
<p>“What—what do you mean? I was just going upstairs.”</p>
<p>“No, you don’t. You’ve got to come and prompt. That fellow
Blake has vanished. I’ll wring his neck! Come along!”</p>
<p>Spennie went reluctantly. Half-way through the duologue the
official prompter returned, with the remark that he had been
having a bit of a smoke on the terrace and that his watch had gone
<span class="pb" id="Page_160">160</span>
wrong. Leaving him to discuss the point with Charteris, Spennie
slipped quietly away.</p>
<p>The delay, however, had had the effect of counteracting the
uplifting effects of the Mumm. The British lion required a fresh
fillip. He went to his room to administer it. By the time he emerged
he was feeling just right for the task in hand. A momentary
doubt occurred to him whether it would not be a good thing to go
down and pull Sir Thomas’s nose as a preliminary to the proceedings;
but he put the temptation aside. Business before pleasure.</p>
<p>With a jaunty, if somewhat unsteady, step he climbed the stairs
to the floor above, and made his way down the corridor to Sir
Thomas’s room. He switched on the light and went to the
dressing-table. The drawer was locked, but in his present mood
Spennie, like Love, laughed at locksmiths. He grasped the handle
and threw his weight into a sudden tug. The drawer came out with
a report like a pistol-shot.</p>
<p>“There!” said his lordship, wagging his head severely.</p>
<p>In the drawer lay the four bank-notes. The sight of them brought
back his grievances with a rush. He would teach Sir Thomas to
treat him like a kid. He would show him!</p>
<p>He was removing the notes, frowning fiercely the while, when
he heard a cry of surprise from behind him.</p>
<p>He turned, to see Molly. She wore the costume of a stage
milkmaid, and her eyes were round with wonder. Leaving her
room a few moments earlier, after dressing for her part, she had
almost reached the end of the corridor that led to the landing
when she observed his lordship, flashed of face and moving like
some restive charger, come curveting out of his bedroom in a
dazzling suit of tweeds and make his way upstairs. Ever since
their mutual encounter with Sir Thomas before dinner she had
been hoping for a chance of seeing him alone. She had not failed
to notice his depression during the meal, and her good little
heart had been troubled by the thought that she must have been
responsible for it. She knew that for some reason what she had
said about the letter had brought his lordship into his uncle’s bad
books, and she wanted to find him and say she was sorry.</p>
<p>Accordingly, she had followed him. His lordship, still in the
war-horse vein, had made the pace upstairs too hot, and had
disappeared while she was still half-way up. She had arrived at
the top just in time to see him turn down the passage into Sir
Thomas’s dressing-room. She could not think what his object
<span class="pb" id="Page_161">161</span>
might be. She knew that Sir Thomas was downstairs, so it could
not be with the idea of a chat with him that Spennie was seeking
the dressing-room.</p>
<p>Faint, yet pursuing, she followed on his trail, and arrived in the
doorway just as the pistol-report of the burst lock rang out.</p>
<p>She stood looking at him blankly. He was holding a drawer in
one hand. Why, she could not imagine.</p>
<p>“Lord Dreever!” she exclaimed.</p>
<p>The sombre determination of his lordship’s face melted into a
twisted but kindly smile.</p>
<p>“Good!” he said, perhaps a trifle thickly. “Good! Glad you’ve
come—we’re pals—you said so—on stairs—b’fore dinner. Very
glad you’ve come. Won’t you sit down?”</p>
<p>He waved the drawer benevolently, by way of making her free
of the room. The movement disturbed one of the bank-notes,
which fluttered in Molly’s direction and fell at her feet.</p>
<p>She stooped and picked it up. When she saw what it was her
bewilderment increased.</p>
<p>“But—but——” she said.</p>
<p>His lordship beamed upon her with a pebble-beached smile of
indescribable goodwill.</p>
<p>“Sit down,” he urged. “We’re pals—no quol with you—you’re
good friend. Quol—Uncle Thomas.”</p>
<p>“But, Lord Dreever, what are you doing? What was that
noise I heard?”</p>
<p>“Opening drawer,” said his lordship affably.</p>
<p>“But——” She looked again at what she had in her hand. “But
this is a five pound note.”</p>
<p>“Five pound note,” said his lordship—“quite right. Three
more of them in here.”</p>
<p>Still she could not understand.</p>
<p>“But—— Were you—stealing them?”</p>
<p>His lordship drew himself up.</p>
<p>“No,” he said. “No! Not stealing. No.”</p>
<p>“Then——”</p>
<p>“Like this: before dinner old boy friendly as you please;
couldn’t do enough for me. Touched him for twenty of the best
and got away with it. So far all well. Then met you on stairs. You
let cat out of bag.”</p>
<p>“But why? Surely——”</p>
<p>His lordship gave the drawer a dignified wave.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_162">162</div>
<p>“Not blaming you,” he said magnanimously. “Not your fault—misfortune.
You didn’t know—about letter.”</p>
<p>“About the letter?” said Molly. “Yes; what was the trouble
about the letter? I knew something was wrong directly I had
said that I wrote it.”</p>
<p>“Trouble was,” said his lordship, “that old boy thought it was
love letter. Didn’t undeceive him.”</p>
<p>“You didn’t tell him? Why?”</p>
<p>His lordship raised his eyebrows.</p>
<p>“Wanted touch him twenty of the best,” he explained simply.</p>
<p>For the life of her Molly could not help laughing.</p>
<p>“Don’t laugh,” protested his lordship, wounded. “No joke—serious—honour
at stake.”</p>
<p>He removed the three notes and replaced the drawer.</p>
<p>“Honour of the Dreevers!” he added, pocketing the money.</p>
<p>“But, Lord Dreever!” she cried. “You can’t! You mustn’t!
You can’t be going, really, to take that money? It’s stealing! It
isn’t yours!”</p>
<p>His lordship wagged a forefinger very solemnly at her.</p>
<p>“That,” he said, “is where you make error. Mine! Old boy
gave them to me.”</p>
<p>“Gave them to you! Then why did you break open the
drawer?”</p>
<p>“Old boy took them back again, when he found out about
letter.”</p>
<p>“Then they don’t belong to you?”</p>
<p>“Yes. Error! They do. Moral right.”</p>
<p>Molly wrinkled her forehead in her agitation. Men of Lord
Dreever’s type appeal to the motherly instinct of women. As a
man his lordship was a negligible quantity—he did not count;
but as a wilful child, to be kept out of trouble, he had a claim on
Molly.</p>
<p>She spoke soothingly.</p>
<p>“But, Lord Dreever——” she began.</p>
<p>“Call me Spennie,” he urged. “We’re pals. You said so—on
stairs. Everybody calls me Spennie, even Uncle Thomas. I’m
going to pull his nose,” he broke off suddenly, as one recollecting
a forgotten appointment.</p>
<p>“Spennie, then,” said Molly. “You mustn’t, Spennie. You
mustn’t, really. You——”</p>
<p>“You look rippin’ in that dress,” he said irrelevantly.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_163">163</div>
<p>“Thank you, Spennie, dear. But listen.” She spoke as if she
were humouring a rebellious infant. “You really mustn’t take
that money. You must put it back. See, I’m putting this note
back. Give me the others, and I’ll put them in the drawer too.
Then we’ll shut the drawer, and nobody will know.”</p>
<p>She took the notes from him, and replaced them in the drawer.
He watched her thoughtfully, as if he were pondering the merits
of her arguments.</p>
<p>“No,” he said suddenly. “No—must have them—moral right!
Old boy——”</p>
<p>She pushed him gently away.</p>
<p>“Yes, yes, I know,” she said. “I know it’s a shame that you
can’t have them; but you mustn’t take them. Don’t you see that
he would suspect you the moment he found they were gone? And
then you’d get into trouble.”</p>
<p>“Something in that,” admitted his lordship.</p>
<p>“Of course there is, Spennie, dear. I’m so glad you see. There
they all are, safe again in the drawer. Now we can go downstairs
again, and——”</p>
<p>She stopped. She had closed the door earlier in the proceedings,
but her quick ear caught the sound of a footstep in the passage
outside.</p>
<p>“Quick!” she whispered, taking his hand and darting to the
electric light switch. “Somebody’s coming. We mustn’t be caught
here. They’d see the broken drawer, and you’d get into awful
trouble. Quick!”</p>
<p>She pushed him behind the curtain where the clothes hung,
and switched off the light.</p>
<p>From behind the curtain came the muffled voice of his lordship.</p>
<p>“It’s Uncle Thomas. I’m coming out. Pull his nose.”</p>
<p>“Be quiet!”</p>
<p>She sprang to the curtain and slipped noiselessly behind it.</p>
<p>“But, I say——” began his lordship.</p>
<p>“Hush!”</p>
<p>She gripped his arm. He subsided.</p>
<p>The footsteps had halted outside the door. Then the handle
turned softly. The door opened and closed again with hardly a
sound.</p>
<p>The footsteps passed on into the room.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_164">164</div>
<h2 id="c25"><span class="small">★ 25 ★</span>
<br /><i>Explanations and an Interruption</i></h2>
<p>Jimmy, like Lord Dreever, had been trapped at the beginning
of the duologue, and had not been able to get away till it was
nearly over. He had been introduced by Lady Julia to an elderly
and adhesive baronet, who had recently spent ten days in New
York, and escape had not been won without a struggle. The
baronet, on his return to England had published a book entitled
“Modern America and its People” and it was with regard to the
opinions expressed in this volume that he invited Jimmy’s views.
He had no wish to see the duologue, and it was only after the loss
of much precious time that Jimmy was enabled to tear himself
away on the plea of having to dress. He anathematized the
authority on “Modern America and its People” freely as he ran
upstairs.</p>
<p>While the duologue was in progress there had been no chance
of Sir Thomas taking it into his head to visit his dressing-room.
He had been, as his valet detective had observed to Mr. Galer,
too busy jollying among the swells. It would only be the work of a
few moments restoring the necklace to its place. But for the
tenacity of the elderly baronet the thing would have been done
by this time. But now there was no knowing what might not
happen—anybody might come along the passage and see him.</p>
<p>He had one point in his favour: there was no likelihood of the
jewels being required by their owner till the conclusion of the
theatricals. The part which Lady Julia had been persuaded by
Charteris to play mercifully contained no scope for the display
of gems.</p>
<p>Before going down to dinner he had locked up the necklace in
a drawer. It was still there, Spike having, apparently, been able
to resist the temptation of recapturing it. He took it out and went
into the corridor. He looked up and down it. There was nobody
about. He shut his door and walked quickly in the direction of
the dressing-room.</p>
<p>He had provided himself with a lamp from a bicycle belonging
<span class="pb" id="Page_165">165</span>
to one of the grooms. Once inside, having closed the door, he lit
this and looked about him.</p>
<p>Spike had given him minute directions as to the position of the
jewel box. He found it without difficulty. To his untrained eye it
seemed tolerably massive and impregnable, but Spike had
evidently known how to open it without much difficulty. The
lid was shut, but it came up without an effort when he tried to
raise it, and he saw that the lock had been broken.</p>
<p>“Spike’s coming on!” he said.</p>
<p>He was dangling the necklace over the box, preparatory to
dropping it in, when there was a quick rustle at the other side of
the room. The curtain was plucked aside and Molly came out.</p>
<p>“Jimmy!” she cried.</p>
<p>Jimmy’s nerves were always in pretty good order, but at the
sight of this apparition he certainly jumped.</p>
<p>“Great Scot!” he said.</p>
<p>The curtain again became agitated by some unseen force,
violently this time, and from its depths a plaintive voice made
itself heard.</p>
<p>“Dash it all,” said the voice, “I’ve stuck!”</p>
<p>There was another upheaval, and his lordship emerged, his
yellow locks ruffled and upstanding, his face crimson.</p>
<p>“Caught my head in a coat or something,” he explained at
large. “Halloa, Pitt!”</p>
<p>Pressed rigid against the wall, Molly had listened with growing
astonishment to the movements on the other side of the curtain.
Her mystification deepened every moment. It seemed to her that
the room was still in darkness. She could hear the sound of
breathing; and then the light of the lantern caught her eye. Who
could this be, and why had he not switched on the electric
light?</p>
<p>She strained her ears to catch a sound. For a while she heard
nothing except the soft breathing. Then came a voice that she
knew well; and, abandoning her hiding-place, she came out into
the room, and found Jimmy standing with a lamp in his hand
over some dark object in the corner of the room.</p>
<p>It was a full minute after Jimmy’s first exclamation of surprise
before either of them spoke again. The light of the lamp hurt
Molly’s eyes. She put up a hand to shade them. It seemed to her
that they had been standing like this for years.</p>
<p>Jimmy had not moved. There was something in his attitude
<span class="pb" id="Page_166">166</span>
which filled Molly with a vague fear. In the shadow behind the
lamp he looked shapeless and inhuman.</p>
<p>“You’re hurting my eyes,” she said at last.</p>
<p>“I’m sorry,” said Jimmy. “I didn’t think. Is that better?” He
turned the light from her face. Something in his voice and the
apologetic haste with which he moved the lamp seemed to relax
the strain of the situation. The feeling of stunned surprise began
to leave her. She found herself thinking coherently again.</p>
<p>The relief was but momentary. Why was Jimmy in the room
at that time? Why had he a lamp? What had he been doing? The
questions shot from her brain like sparks from an anvil.</p>
<p>The darkness began to tear at her nerves. She felt along the
wall for the switch and flooded the room with light.</p>
<p>Jimmy laid down the lantern and stood for a moment undecided.
He had concealed the necklace behind him. Now he
brought it forward and dangled it silently before the eyes of
Molly and his lordship. Excellent as were his motives for being
in that room with the necklace in his hand, he could not help
feeling, as he met Molly’s startled gaze, quite as guilty as if his
intentions had been quite different.</p>
<p>His lordship, having by this time pulled himself together to
some extent, was the first to speak.</p>
<p>“I say, you know, what ho!” he observed, not without emotion.
“What?”</p>
<p>Molly drew back.</p>
<p>“Jimmy! You were——. Oh, you can’t have been!”</p>
<p>“Looks jolly like it!” said his lordship judicially.</p>
<p>“I wasn’t,” said Jimmy. “I was putting them back.”</p>
<p>“Putting them back?”</p>
<p>“Pitt, old man,” said his lordship solemnly, “that sounds a bit
thin.”</p>
<p>“Dreever, old man,” said Jimmy, “I know it does. But it’s the
truth.”</p>
<p>His lordship’s manner became kindly.</p>
<p>“Now, look here, Pitt, old son,” he said. “There’s nothing to
worry about—we’re all pals here—you can pitch it straight to us.
We won’t give you away. We——”</p>
<p>“Be quiet!” cried Molly. “Jimmy!”</p>
<p>Her voice was strained; she spoke with an effort; she was
suffering torments. The words her father had said to her on the
terrace were pouring back into her mind. She seemed to hear his
<span class="pb" id="Page_167">167</span>
voice now, cool and confident, warning her against Jimmy,
saying that he was crooked. There was a curious whirring in her
head. Everything in the room was growing large and misty. She
heard Lord Dreever begin to say something that sounded as if
some one were speaking at the end of a telephone; and then she
was aware that Jimmy was holding her in his arms and calling to
Lord Dreever to bring water.</p>
<p>“When a girl goes like that,” said his lordship, with an insufferable
air of omniscience, “you want to cut her——”</p>
<p>“Come along!” said Jimmy. “Are you going to be a week
getting that water?”</p>
<p>His lordship proceeded to soak a sponge without further parley;
but as he carried his dripping burden across the room Molly
recovered. She tried weakly to free herself.</p>
<p>Jimmy helped her to a chair. He had dropped the necklace on
the floor, and Lord Dreever nearly trod on it.</p>
<p>“What ho!” observed his lordship, picking it up. “Go easy
with the jewellery!”</p>
<p>Jimmy was bending over Molly. Neither of them seemed to be
aware of his lordship’s presence. Spennie was the sort of person
whose existence is apt to be forgotten. Jimmy had had a flash of
intuition. For the first time it occurred to him that Mr. McEachern
might have hinted to Molly something of his own
suspicions.</p>
<p>“Molly, dear,” he said, “it isn’t what you think. I can explain
everything. Do you feel better now? Can you listen? I can explain
everything.”</p>
<p>“Pitt, old boy,” protested his lordship, “you don’t understand.
We aren’t going to give you away. We’re all——”</p>
<p>Jimmy ignored him.</p>
<p>“Molly, listen,” he said.</p>
<p>She sat up.</p>
<p>“Go on, Jimmy,” she said.</p>
<p>“I wasn’t stealing the necklace—I was putting it back. The
man who came to the castle with me, Spike Mullins, took it this
afternoon and brought it to me.”</p>
<p>Spike Mullins! Molly remembered the name.</p>
<p>“He thinks I am a crook—a sort of Raffles. It was my fault. I
was a fool. It all began that night in New York when we met at
your house. I had been to the opening performance of a play
called <i>Love, the Cracksman</i>—one of those burglar plays.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_168">168</div>
<p>“Jolly good show!” interpolated his lordship chattily. “It was
at the Circle over here. I went twice.”</p>
<p>“A friend of mine, a man named Mifflin, had been playing the
hero in it, and after the show, at the club, he started in talking
about the art of burglary—he’d been studying it—and I said that
anybody could burgle a house. And in another minute it somehow
happened that I had made a bet that I would do it that night.
Heaven knows whether I ever really meant to; but that same night
this man Mullins broke into my flat, and I caught him. We got
into conversation, and I worked off on him a lot of technical stuff
I’d heard from this actor friend of mine, and he jumped to the
conclusion that I was an expert. And then it suddenly occurred
to me that it would be a good joke on Mifflin if I went out with
Mullins and did break into a house. I wasn’t in the mood to think
what a fool I was at the time. Well, anyway, we went out, and—well,
that’s how it all happened. And then I met Spike in London,
down and out, and brought him here.”</p>
<p>He looked at her anxiously. It did not need his lordship’s
owlish expression of doubt to tell him how weak his story must
sound. He had felt it even as he was telling it. He was bound to
admit that if ever a story rang false in every sentence it was this
one.</p>
<p>“Pitt, old man,” said his lordship, shaking his head, more in
sorrow than in anger, “it won’t do, old top. What’s the point of
putting up any old yarn like that? Don’t you see, what I mean is,
it’s not as if we minded. Don’t I keep telling you we’re all pals
here? I’ve often thought what a jolly good feller old Raffles was—regular
sportsman. I don’t blame a chappie for doing the gentleman
burglar touch. Seems to me it’s a dashed sporting——”</p>
<p>Molly turned on him suddenly, cutting short his views on the
ethics of gentlemanly theft in a blaze of indignation.</p>
<p>“What do you mean?” she cried. “Do you think I don’t believe
every word Jimmy has said?”</p>
<p>His lordship jumped.</p>
<p>“Well, don’t you know, it seemed to me a bit thin. What I
mean is——” He met Molly’s eye.</p>
<p>“Oh, well!” he concluded lamely.</p>
<p>Molly turned to Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Jimmy, of course I believe you—I believe every word.”</p>
<p>“Molly!”</p>
<p>His lordship looked on, marvelling. The thought crossed his
<span class="pb" id="Page_169">169</span>
mind that he had lost the ideal wife. A girl who would believe
any old yarn a feller cared to—— If it hadn’t been for Katie—— For
a moment he felt almost sad.</p>
<p>Jimmy and Molly were looking at each other in silence. From
the expression on their faces his lordship gathered that his
existence had once more been forgotten. He saw her hold out her
hands to Jimmy. It was embarrassing for a chap! He looked away.</p>
<p>The next moment the door opened and closed again, and she
had gone.</p>
<p>He looked at Jimmy. Jimmy was still apparently unconscious
of his presence.</p>
<p>His lordship coughed.</p>
<p>“Pitt, old man——”</p>
<p>“Halloa!” said Jimmy, coming out of his thoughts with a start.
“You still here? By the way”—he eyed Lord Dreever curiously—“I
never thought of asking before—what on earth are you doing
here? Why were you behind the curtain? Were you playing hide
and seek?”</p>
<p>His lordship was not one of those who invent circumstantial
stories easily on the spur of the moment. He searched rapidly for
something that would pass muster, then abandoned the hopeless
struggle. After all, why not be frank? He still believed Jimmy to
be of the class of the hero of <i>Love, the Cracksman</i>. There would
be no harm in confiding in him. He was a good fellow, a kindred
soul, and would sympathise.</p>
<p>“It’s like this,” he said. And, having prefaced his narrative
with the sound remark that he had been a bit of an ass, he gave
Jimmy a summary of recent events.</p>
<p>“What!” said Jimmy. “You taught Hargate piquet? Why, my
dear man, he was playing piquet like a professor when you were in
short frocks. He’s a wonder at it.”</p>
<p>His lordship stared.</p>
<p>“How’s that?” he said. “You don’t know him, do you?”</p>
<p>“I met him in New York at the Strollers’ Club. A pal of mine,
an actor—this fellow Mifflin I mentioned just now—put him up
as a guest. He coined money at piquet. And there were some
pretty useful players in the place, too. I don’t wonder you found
him a promising pupil.”</p>
<p>“Then—then—why, dash it! then he’s a bally sharper?”</p>
<p>“You’re a genius at crisp description,” said Jimmy. “You’ve
got him summed up to rights first shot.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_170">170</div>
<p>“I shan’t pay him a bally penny.”</p>
<p>“Of course not. If he makes any objection refer him to me.”</p>
<p>His lordship’s relief was extreme. The more overpowering
effects of the elixir had passed away, and he saw now what he had
not seen in his more exuberant frame of mind—the cloud of
suspicion which must hang over him when the loss of the bank-notes
was discovered.</p>
<p>He wiped his forehead.</p>
<p>“By Jove!” he said. “That’s something off my mind! By
George, I feel like a two year old! I say, you’re a dashed good
sort, Pitt.”</p>
<p>“You flatter me,” said Jimmy. “I strive to please.”</p>
<p>“I say, Pitt, that yarn you told us just now—the bet and all that—honestly,
you don’t mean to say that was true, was it? I mean—— By
Jove! I’ve got an idea.”</p>
<p>“We live in stirring times!”</p>
<p>“Did you say your actor pal’s name was Mifflin?” He broke off
suddenly before Jimmy could answer. “Great Scot!” he
whispered, “what’s that? Good lord! Somebody’s coming!”</p>
<p>He dived behind the curtain like a rabbit. It had only just
ceased to shake when the door opened and Sir Thomas Blunt
walked in.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_171">171</div>
<h2 id="c26"><span class="small">★ 26 ★</span>
<br /><i>Stirring Times for Sir Thomas</i></h2>
<p>For a man whose intentions towards the jewels and their owner
were so innocent, and even benevolent, Jimmy was in a
singularly compromising position. It would have been difficult,
even under more favourable conditions, to have explained to Sir
Thomas’s satisfaction his presence in the dressing-room. As
things stood it was even harder, for his lordship’s last action
before seeking cover had been to fling the necklace from him like
a burning coal. For the second time in ten minutes it had fallen
to the carpet, and it was just as Jimmy straightened himself after
picking it up that Sir Thomas got a full view of him.</p>
<p>The knight stood in the doorway, his face expressing the most
lively astonishment. His bulging eyes were fixed upon the necklace
in Jimmy’s hand. Jimmy could see him struggling to find
words to cope with so special a situation, and he felt rather sorry
for him. Excitement of this kind was bad for a short-necked man
of Sir Thomas’s type.</p>
<p>With kindly tact he endeavoured to help him out.</p>
<p>“Good evening,” he said pleasantly.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas stammered. He was gradually nearing speech.</p>
<p>“What—what—what——” he said.</p>
<p>“Out with it,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“What——”</p>
<p>“I knew a man once in South Dakota who stammered,” said
Jimmy. “He used to chew dog-biscuit while he was speaking. It
cured him, besides being nutritious. Another good way is to
count ten while you’re thinking what to say, and then get it out
quick.”</p>
<p>“You—you blackguard!”</p>
<p>Jimmy placed the necklace carefully on the dressing-table.
Then he turned to Sir Thomas, with his hands in the pockets of
his coat. Over the knight’s head he could see the folds of the
curtain quivering gently, as if stirred by some zephyr. Evidently
the drama of the situation was not lost on Hildebrand Spencer,
twelfth Earl of Dreever.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_172">172</div>
<p>Nor was it lost on Jimmy. This was precisely the sort of
situation that appealed to him. He had his plan of action clearly
mapped out. He knew that it would be useless to tell the knight
the true facts of the case. Sir Thomas was as deficient in simple
faith as in Norman blood.</p>
<p>To all appearances this was a tight corner, but Jimmy fancied
that he saw his way out of it. Meanwhile, the situation appealed
to him. Curiously enough, it was almost identical with the big
scene in Act III of <i>Love, the Cracksman</i> in which Arthur Mifflin
had made such a hit as the debonair burglar.</p>
<p>Jimmy proceeded to give his own idea of what the rendering of
a debonair burglar should be. Arthur Mifflin had lit a cigarette,
and had shot out smoke-rings and repartee alternately. A cigarette
would have been a great help here, but Jimmy prepared to do his
best without properties.</p>
<p>“So—so it’s you, is it?” said Sir Thomas.</p>
<p>“Who told you!”</p>
<p>“Thief! Low thief!”</p>
<p>“Come, now,” protested Jimmy. “Why low? Just because you
don’t know me over here, why scorn me? How do you know I
haven’t got a big American reputation? For all you can tell, I
may be Boston Willie or Sacramento Sam, or some one. Let us
preserve the decencies of debate.”</p>
<p>“I had my suspicions of you. I had my suspicions from the
first, when I heard that my idiot of a nephew had made a casual
friend in London. So this was what you were! A thief, who——”</p>
<p>“I don’t mind personally,” interrupted Jimmy, “but I hope,
if ever you mix with cracksmen, you won’t call them thieves.
They are frightfully sensitive. You see, there’s a world of difference
between the two branches of the profession, and a good
deal of snobbish caste prejudice. Let us suppose that you were an
actor-manager. How would you enjoy being called a super? You
see the idea, don’t you? You’d hurt their feelings. Now, an
ordinary thief would probably use violence in a case like this; but
violence, except in extreme cases—I hope this won’t be one of
them—is contrary, I understand, to cracksmen’s etiquette. On
the other hand, Sir Thomas, candour compels me to add that I
have you covered.”</p>
<p>There was a pipe in the pocket of his coat. He thrust the stem
earnestly against the lining. Sir Thomas eyed the protuberance
apprehensively, and turned a little pale. Jimmy was scowling
<span class="pb" id="Page_173">173</span>
ferociously. Arthur Mifflin’s scowl in Act III had been much
admired.</p>
<p>“My gun,” said Jimmy, “is, as you see, in my pocket. I always
shoot from the pocket, in spite of the tailor’s bills. The little
fellow is loaded and cocked. He’s pointing straight at your
diamond solitaire. That fatal spot! No one has ever been hit in
the diamond solitaire and survived. My finger is on the trigger,
so I should recommend you not to touch that bell you are
looking at. There are other reasons why you shouldn’t, but those
I will go into presently.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas’s hand wavered.</p>
<p>“Do, if you like, of course,” said Jimmy agreeably—“it’s your
own house—but I shouldn’t. I am a dead shot at a yard and a
half. You wouldn’t believe the number of sitting haystacks I’ve
picked off at that distance. I simply can’t miss. On second
thoughts, I sha’n’t fire to kill you. Let us be humane on this
joyful occasion. I shall just smash your knees—painful, but not
fatal.”</p>
<p>He waggled his pipe suggestively. Sir Thomas blanched. His
hand fell to his side.</p>
<p>“Great!” said Jimmy. “After all, why should you be in a
hurry to break up this very pleasant little meeting? I’m sure I’m
not. Let us chat. How are the theatricals going? Was the duologue
a success? Wait till you see our show. Three of us knew our
lines at the dress rehearsal.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas had backed away from the bell, but the retreat was
merely for the convenience of the moment. He understood that it
might be injurious to press the button just then; but he had
recovered his composure by this time, and he saw that ultimately
the game must be his.</p>
<p>Jimmy was trapped.</p>
<p>His face resumed its normal hue. Automatically his hands
began to move towards his coat-tails and his feet to spread themselves.
Jimmy noted with a smile these signs of restored complacency.
He hoped ere long to upset that complacency somewhat.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas addressed himself to making Jimmy’s position
clear to him.</p>
<p>“How, may I ask,” he said, “do you propose to leave the castle?”</p>
<p>“Won’t you let me have the motor?” said Jimmy. “But I
expect I sha’n’t be leaving just yet.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_174">174</div>
<p>Sir Thomas laughed shortly.</p>
<p>“No,” he said. “No; I fancy not. I am with you there!”</p>
<p>“Great minds,” said Jimmy. “I shouldn’t be surprised if we
thought alike on all sorts of subjects. Just think how you came
round to my views on ringing the bell. In a flash! But what made
you fancy that I intended to leave the castle?”</p>
<p>“I should hardly have supposed that you would be anxious to
stay.”</p>
<p>“On the contrary. It’s the one place I have been in in the last
two years that I have felt really satisfied with. Usually I want to
move on after a week. But I could stop here for ever.”</p>
<p>“I am afraid, Mr. Pitt—by the way, an alias, of course?”</p>
<p>“I fear not,” he said. “If I had chosen an alias, it would have
been Tressilyan, or Trevelyan, or something. I call Pitt a poor
thing in names. I once knew a man called Ronald Cheylesmore.
Lucky fellow!”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas returned to the point on which he had been about
to touch.</p>
<p>“I am afraid, Mr. Pitt, that you hardly realise your position.”</p>
<p>“No?” said Jimmy, interested.</p>
<p>“I find you in the act of stealing my wife’s necklace——”</p>
<p>“Would there be any use in telling you that I was not stealing
it, but putting it back?”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas raised his eyebrows in silence.</p>
<p>“No?” said Jimmy. “I was afraid not. You were saying——”</p>
<p>“I find you in the act of stealing my wife’s necklace,” proceeded
Sir Thomas, “and because for the moment you succeed in
postponing arrest by threatening me with a revolver——”</p>
<p>An agitated look came into Jimmy’s face.</p>
<p>“Great Scott!” he cried. He felt hastily in his pocket. “Yes,”
he said; “as I had begun to fear. I owe you an apology, Sir
Thomas,” he went on with manly dignity, producing the briar.
“I am entirely to blame. How the mistake arose I cannot imagine,
but I find it isn’t a revolver after all.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas’s cheeks took on a richer tint of purple. He glared
dumbly at the pipe.</p>
<p>“In the excitement of the moment, I suppose——” began
Jimmy.</p>
<p>Sir Thomas interrupted. The recollection of his needless panic
rankled within him.</p>
<p>“You—you—you——”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_175">175</div>
<p>“Count ten!”</p>
<p>“You—what you propose to gain by this buffoonery I am at a
loss——”</p>
<p>“How can you say such savage things?” protested Jimmy.
“Not buffoonery! Wit! Esprit! Flow of soul such as circulates
daily in the best society.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas almost leaped towards the bell. With his finger on
it, he turned to deliver a final speech.</p>
<p>“I believe you’re insane,” he cried; “but I’ll have no more of
it. I have endured this foolery long enough. I’ll——”</p>
<p>“Just one moment,” said Jimmy. “I said just now that there
were other reasons besides the revol—well, pipe—why you should
not ring that bell. One of them is that all the servants will be in
their places in the audience, so that there won’t be any one to
answer it. But that’s not the most convincing reason. Will you
listen to one more before getting busy?”</p>
<p>“I see your game. Don’t imagine for a moment that you
trick me.”</p>
<p>“Nothing could be further——”</p>
<p>“You fancy you can gain time by talking, and find some way of
escape——”</p>
<p>“But I don’t want to escape. Don’t you realise that in about
ten minutes I am due to play an important part in a great drama
on the stage?”</p>
<p>“I’ll keep you here, I tell you. You’ll leave this room,” said
Sir Thomas grandly, “over my body.”</p>
<p>“Steeplechasing in the home,” murmured Jimmy. “No more
dull evenings. But listen—do listen. I won’t keep you a minute,
and if you want to push that bell after I’ve finished, you may
push it six inches into the wall if you like.”</p>
<p>“Well?” said Sir Thomas shortly.</p>
<p>“Would you like me to lead gently up to what I want to say,
gradually preparing you for the reception of the news, or shall
I——”</p>
<p>The knight took out his watch.</p>
<p>“I shall give you one minute,” he said.</p>
<p>“Heavens, I must hustle! How many seconds have I got now?”</p>
<p>“If you have anything to say, say it.”</p>
<p>“Very well, then,” said Jimmy. “It’s only this. That necklace
is a fraud. The diamonds aren’t diamonds at all. They’re paste!”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_176">176</div>
<h2 id="c27"><span class="small">★ 27 ★</span>
<br /><i>A Declaration of Independence</i></h2>
<p>If Jimmy had entertained any doubts concerning the effectiveness
of this disclosure, they would have vanished at the sight of the
other’s face. Just as the rich hues of a sunset pale slowly into an
almost imperceptible green, so did the purple of Sir Thomas’s
cheeks become, in stages, first a dull red, then pink, and finally
take on a uniform pallor. His mouth hung open. His attitude of
righteous defiance had crumpled. Unsuspected creases appeared
in his clothes. He had the appearance of one who has been caught
in the machinery.</p>
<p>Jimmy was a little puzzled. He had expected to check the
enemy, to bring him to reason, but not to demolish him in that
way. There was something in this which he did not understand.
When Spike had handed him the stones, and his trained eye,
after a moment’s searching examination, had made him suspicious,
and when, finally, a simple test had proved his suspicions
correct, he was comfortably aware that, though found with the
necklace on his person, he had knowledge which, communicated
to Sir Thomas, would serve him well. He knew that Lady Julia
was not the sort of Lady who would bear calmly the announcement
that her treasured rope of diamonds was a fraud. He knew
enough of her to know that she would demand another necklace,
and see that she got it, and that Sir Thomas was not one of those
generous and expansive natures which think nothing of an
expenditure of twenty thousand pounds.</p>
<p>This was the line of thought which had kept him cheerful
during what might otherwise have been a trying interview. He
was aware from the first that Sir Thomas would not believe in the
purity of his motives; but he was convinced that the knight
would be satisfied to secure his silence on the subject of the paste
necklace on any terms. He had looked forward to baffled rage,
furious denunciation, and a dozen other expressions of emotion,
but certainly not to collapse of this kind.</p>
<p>The other had begun to make strange, gurgling noises.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_177">177</div>
<p>“Mind you,” said Jimmy, “it’s a very good imitation—I’ll say
that for it. I didn’t suspect it till I had the thing in my hands.
Looking at it—even quite close—I was taken in for a moment.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas swallowed nervously.</p>
<p>“How did you know?” he muttered.</p>
<p>Again Jimmy was surprised. He had expected indignant
denials and demands for proof, excited reiteration of the statement
that the stones had cost twenty thousand pounds.</p>
<p>“How did I know?” he repeated. “If you mean what first made
me suspect, I couldn’t tell you; it might have been one of a score
of things. A jeweller can’t say exactly how he gets on the track of
faked stones. He can feel them, he can almost smell them. I
worked with a jeweller once; that’s how I got my knowledge of
jewels. But if you mean, can I prove what I say about this necklace,
that’s easy. There’s no deception; it’s simple. See here. These
stones are supposed to be diamonds. Well, the diamond is the
hardest stone in existence—nothing will scratch it. Now, I’ve got
a little ruby out of a pin which I know is genuine. By rights, then,
that ruby ought not to have scratched these stones. You follow
that? But it did. It scratched two of them, the only two I tried.
If you like I can continue the experiment, but there’s no need. I
can tell you straight away what these stones are. I said they were
paste, but that wasn’t quite accurate. They’re a stuff called white
jargoon. It’s a stuff that’s very easily worked. You work it with
the flame of a blow-pipe. You don’t want a full description, I
suppose? Anyway, what happens is that the blow-pipe sets it up
like a tonic, gives it increased specific gravity, and a healthy
complexion, and all sorts of great things of that kind. Two minutes
in the flame of a blow-pipe is like a week at the seaside to a bit of
white jargoon. Are you satisfied? If it comes to that, I suppose
you can hardly be expected to be; convinced is a better word.
Are you convinced, or do you hanker after tests like polarised
light and refracting liquids?”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas had staggered to a chair.</p>
<p>“So that was how you knew!” he said.</p>
<p>“That was—” began Jimmy, when a sudden suspicion flashed
across his mind. He scrutinised Sir Thomas’s pallid face keenly.</p>
<p>“Did you know?” he asked.</p>
<p>He wondered that the possibility had not occurred to him
earlier.</p>
<p>“By George, I believe you did!” he cried. “You must have
<span class="pb" id="Page_178">178</span>
done. So that’s how it happened, is it? I don’t wonder it was a
shock when I said I knew about the necklace.”</p>
<p>“Mr. Pitt!”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“I have something to say to you.”</p>
<p>“I’m listening.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas tried to rally. There was a touch of the old pomposity
in his manner when he spoke.</p>
<p>“Mr. Pitt, I find you in an unpleasant position——”</p>
<p>Jimmy interrupted.</p>
<p>“Don’t you worry about my unpleasant position,” he said.
“Fix your attention exclusively upon your own. Let us be frank
with one another. You’re in the cart. What do you propose to do
about it?”</p>
<p>“I do not understand you,” he began.</p>
<p>“No?” said Jimmy. “I’ll try and make my meaning clear.
Correct me from time to time if I am wrong. The way I size the
thing up is as follows: When you married Lady Julia I gather
that it was, so to speak, up to you to some extent. People knew you
were a millionaire, and they expected something special in the way
of gifts from the bridegroom to the bride. Now you, being of a
prudent and economical nature, began to wonder if there wasn’t
some way of getting a reputation for lavishness without actually
cashing up to any great extent. Am I right?”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas did not answer.</p>
<p>“I am,” said Jimmy. “Well, it occurred to you, naturally
enough, that a properly-selected gift of jewellery might work the
trick. It only needed a little nerve. When you give a present of
diamonds to a lady she is not likely to call for polarised light and
refracting liquids and the rest of the circus. In ninety-nine cases
out of a hundred she will take the thing on trust. Very well. You
trotted off to a jeweller and put the thing to him confidentially. I
expect you suggested paste; but, being a wily person, he pointed
out that paste has a habit of not wearing well. It is pretty enough
when it’s new, but quite a small amount of ordinary wear and
tear destroys the polish of the surface and the sharpness of the
cutting. It gets scratched easily. Having heard this, and reflected
that Lady Julia was not likely to keep the necklace under a glass
case, you rejected paste as too risky. The genial jeweller then
suggested white jargoon, mentioning, as I have done, that after an
application or so of the blow-pipe its own mother wouldn’t
<span class="pb" id="Page_179">179</span>
know it. If he was a bit of an antiquary, he probably added that
in the eighteenth century jargoon stones were supposed to be
actually an inferior sort of diamond. What could be more suitable?
‘Make it jargoon, dear heart,’ you cried joyfully, and all was well.
Am I right? I notice that you have not corrected me so far.”</p>
<p>Whether Sir Thomas would have replied in the affirmative is
uncertain. He was opening his mouth to speak when the curtain
at the end of the room heaved, and Lord Dreever burst out like a
cannon-ball in tweeds.</p>
<p>The apparition effectually checked any speech that Sir Thomas
might have been intending to make. Lying back in his chair, he
goggled silently at the new arrival. Even Jimmy, though knowing
that his lordship was in hiding, was taken aback.</p>
<p>His lordship broke the silence.</p>
<p>“Great Scot!” he cried.</p>
<p>Neither Jimmy nor Sir Thomas seemed to consider the observation
unsound or inadequate. They permitted it to pass without
comment.</p>
<p>“You old scoundrel!” added his lordship, addressing Sir
Thomas; “and you’re the man who called me a welsher!” There
were signs of a flicker of spirit in the knight’s prominent eyes,
but they died away. He made no reply.</p>
<p>“Great Scot!” moaned his lordship, in a fever of self-pity,
“here have I been all these years letting you give me Hades in
every shape and form, when all the while—— My goodness, if
I’d only known earlier!”</p>
<p>He turned to Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Pitt, old man,” he said warmly, “I—dash it—I don’t know
what to say. If it hadn’t been for you—I always did like
Americans.”</p>
<p>“I’m not one,” said Jimmy; but his lordship went on, unchecked.</p>
<p>“I always thought it bally rot that that fuss happened in—in—wherever
it was. If it hadn’t been for fellows like you,” he continued,
addressing Sir Thomas once more, “there wouldn’t have
been any of that frightful Declaration of Independence business.
Would there, Pitt, old man?”</p>
<p>These were deep problems too spacious for casual examination.
Jimmy shrugged his shoulders.</p>
<p>“Well, I should say Sir Thomas might not have got along with
George Washington, anyhow,” he said.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_180">180</div>
<p>“Of course not. Well”—his lordship moved towards the door—“I’m
off downstairs to see what Aunt Julia has to say about it all.”</p>
<p>A shudder, as if from some electric shock shook Sir Thomas.
He leaped to his feet.</p>
<p>“Spencer,” he cried, “I forbid you to say a word to your aunt.”</p>
<p>“Oh!” said his lordship. “You do, do you?”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas shivered.</p>
<p>“She would never let me hear the last of it.”</p>
<p>“I bet she wouldn’t. I’ll go and see.”</p>
<p>“Stop!”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas dabbed at his forehead with his handkerchief. He
dared not face the vision of Lady Julia in possession of the truth.
At one time the fear lest she might discover the harmless little
deception he had practised had kept him awake at night, but
gradually, as the days went by, and the excellence of the imitation
stones had continued to impose upon her and upon every one
else who saw them, the fear had diminished. But it had always
been at the back of his mind. Even in her calmer moments his
wife was a source of mild terror to him. His imagination reeled at
the thought of what depths of aristocratic scorn and indignation
she would plumb in a case like this.</p>
<p>“Spencer,” he said, “I insist that you shall not inform your
aunt of this!”</p>
<p>“What? You want me to keep my mouth shut? You want me to
become an accomplice in this beastly, low-down deception? I
like that!”</p>
<p>“The point,” said Jimmy, “is well taken—<i>noblesse oblige</i>, and
all that sort of thing. The blood of the Dreevers boils furiously at
the idea. Listen! You can hear it sizzling.”</p>
<p>Lord Dreever moved a step nearer the door.</p>
<p>“Stop!” cried Sir Thomas again. “Spencer!”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“Spencer, my boy, it occurs to me that perhaps I have not
always treated you very well.”</p>
<p>“‘Perhaps!’ ‘Not always!’ Great Scot! I’ll have a fiver each way
on both those. Considering you’ve treated me like a frightful kid
practically ever since you’ve known me, I call that pretty rich.
Why, what about this very night, when I asked you for a few
pounds?”</p>
<p>“It was only the thought that you had been gambling——”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_181">181</div>
<p>“Gambling! How about palming off faked diamonds on Aunt
Julia for a gamble?”</p>
<p>“A game of skill, surely,” murmured Jimmy.</p>
<p>“I have been thinking the matter over,” said Sir Thomas, “and
if you really need the—— Was it not fifty pounds?”</p>
<p>“It was twenty,” said his lordship, “and I don’t need it. Keep
it. You’ll want all you can save for a new necklace.”</p>
<p>His fingers closed on the door-handle.</p>
<p>“Spencer—stop!”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“We must talk this over. We must not be hasty.”</p>
<p>He passed the handkerchief over his forehead.</p>
<p>“In the past, perhaps,” he resumed, “our relations have not
been quite—— The fault was mine. I have always endeavoured
to do my duty. It is a difficult task to look after a young man of
your age——”</p>
<p>His lordship’s sense of his grievances made him eloquent.</p>
<p>“Dash it all!” he cried. “That’s just what I jolly well complain
of. Who the dickens wanted you to look after me? Hang it!
you’ve kept your eye on me all these years like a frightful policeman!
You cut off my allowance right in the middle of my time at
the ’Varsity, just when I needed it most, and I had to come and
beg for money whenever I wanted to buy a cigarette. I looked a
fearful ass I can tell you! Men who knew me used to be dashed
funny about it. I’m sick of the whole bally business. You’ve
given me a jolly thin time all this while, and now I’m going to get
a bit of my own back. Wouldn’t you, Pitt, old man?”</p>
<p>Jimmy, thus suddenly appealed to, admitted that, in his lordship’s
place, he might have experienced a momentary temptation
to do something of the kind.</p>
<p>“Of course,” said his lordship. “Any fellow would.”</p>
<p>“But, Spencer, let me——”</p>
<p>“You’ve soured my life,” said his lordship, frowning a tense,
Byronic frown. “That’s what you’ve done—soured my whole
bally life. I’ve had a rotten time. I’ve had to go about touching
my friends for money to keep me going. Why, I owe you a fiver,
don’t I, Pitt, old man?”</p>
<p>It was a tenner, to be finickingly accurate about details, but
Jimmy did not say so. He concluded, rightly, that the memory of
the original five pounds which he had lent Lord Dreever at the
Savoy Hotel had faded from the other’s mind.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_182">182</div>
<p>“Don’t mention it,” he said.</p>
<p>“But I do mention it,” protested his lordship shrilly. “It just
proves what I say. If I had had a decent allowance it wouldn’t
have happened. And you wouldn’t give me enough to set me going
in the Diplomatic Service. That’s another thing. Why wouldn’t
you do that?”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas pulled himself together.</p>
<p>“I hardly thought you qualified, my dear boy.”</p>
<p>His lordship did not actually foam at the mouth, but he looked
as if he might do so at any moment. Excitement and the memory
of his wrongs, lubricated, as it were, by the champagne he had
consumed both at and after dinner, had produced in him a
frame of mind far removed from the normal. His manners no
longer had that repose which stamps the caste of Vere de Vere.
He waved his hands.</p>
<p>“I know, I know!” he shouted. “I know you didn’t. You
thought me a fearful fool. I tell you I’m sick of it. And always
trying to make me marry money! Dashed humiliating! If she
hadn’t been a jolly sensible girl you’d have spoiled Miss McEachern’s
life as well as mine. You came very near it. I tell you,
I’ve had enough of it. I’m in love! I’m in love with the rippingest
girl in England. You’ve seen her, Pitt, old top. Isn’t she a
ripper?”</p>
<p>Jimmy stamped the absent lady with the seal of his approval.</p>
<p>“I tell you, if she’ll have me, I’m going to marry her.”</p>
<p>The dismay written on every inch of Sir Thomas’s countenance
became intensified at these terrific words. Great as had been his
contempt for the actual holder of the title considered simply as a
young man, he had always been filled with a supreme respect for
the Dreever name.</p>
<p>“But, Spencer,” he almost howled, “consider your position!
You cannot——”</p>
<p>“Can’t I, by Jove! if she’ll have me; and dash my position!
What’s my position got to do with it? Katie’s the daughter of a
general, if it comes to that. Her brother was at the House with
me. If I had a penny to call my own I’d have asked her to marry
me ages ago. Don’t you worry about my position!”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas croaked feebly.</p>
<p>“Now, look here,” said his lordship, with determination.
“Here’s the whole thing in a jolly old nutshell. If you want me to
forget about this little flutter in fake diamonds of yours you’ve
<span class="pb" id="Page_183">183</span>
got to pull your socks up and start in to do things. You’ve got to
get me attached to some Embassy, for a beginning. It won’t be
difficult. There’s dozens of old boys in London who knew the
governor when he was alive who will jump at the chance of doing
me a good turn. I know I’m a bit of an ass in some ways, but that’s
expected of you in the Diplomatic Service. They only want you
to wear evening clothes as if you were used to them, and be a bit
of a flier at dancing, and I can fill the bill all right as far as that
goes. And you’ve got to give your jolly old blessing to Katie and
me—if she’ll have me. That’s about all I can think of for the
moment. Now do we go? Are you on?”</p>
<p>“It’s preposterous,” began Sir Thomas.</p>
<p>Lord Dreever gave the door-handle a rattle. He stopped.</p>
<p>“It’s a hold-up all right,” said Jimmy soothingly. “I don’t
want to butt in on a family conclave, but my advice, if asked,
would be to unbelt before the shooting begins. You’ve got something
worse than a pipe pointing at you now. As regards my
position in the business, don’t worry. My silence is thrown in
gratis. Give me one loving smile and my lips are sealed.”</p>
<p>Sir Thomas turned on him.</p>
<p>“As for you——” he cried.</p>
<p>“Never mind about Pitt,” said his lordship. “He’s a dashed
good fellow, Pitt. I wish there were more like him. And he wasn’t
pinching the stuff either. If you had only listened when he tried
to tell you, you mightn’t be in such a frightful hole. He was
putting the things back, as he said. I know all about it. Well,
what’s the answer?”</p>
<p>For a moment Sir Thomas seemed on the point of refusal. But
just as he was about to speak his lordship opened the door, and
at the movement he collapsed again.</p>
<p>“I will!” he cried. “I will!”</p>
<p>“Good,” said his lordship, with satisfaction. “That’s a bargain.
Coming downstairs, Pitt, old man? We shall be wanted on the
stage in about half a minute.”</p>
<p>“As an antidote to stage-fright,” said Jimmy, as they went
along the corridor, “little discussions of that kind may be highly
recommended. I shouldn’t mind betting that you feel fit for anything.”</p>
<p>“I feel like a two-year-old,” assented his lordship enthusiastically.
“I’ve forgotten all my part, but I don’t care. I’ll just go
on and talk to them.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_184">184</div>
<p>“That,” said Jimmy, “is the right spirit. Charteris will get
heart disease, but it’s the right spirit. A little more of that sort of
thing and amateur theatricals would be worth listening to. Step
lively, Roscius; the stage waits.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_185">185</div>
<h2 id="c28"><span class="small">★ 28 ★</span>
<br /><i>Spennie’s Hour of Clear Vision</i></h2>
<p>Mr. McEachern sat in the billiard-room smoking. He was
alone. From where he sat he could hear distant strains of
music. The more rigorous portion of the evening’s entertainment,
the theatricals, was over, and the nobility and gentry, having
done their duty by sitting through the performance, were now
enjoying themselves in the ballroom. Everybody was happy. The
play had been quite as successful as the usual amateur performance.
The prompter had made himself a great favourite
from the start, his series of duets with Spennie having been
especially admired, and Jimmy, as became an old professional,
had played his part with great finish and certainty of touch,
though, like the bloodhounds in the performance of “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” on tour, he had had poor support. But the audience
bore no malice.</p>
<p>No collection of individuals is less vindictive than an audience
at amateur theatricals. It was all over now. Charteris had literally
gibbered in the presence of eye-witnesses at one point in the
second act, when Spennie, by giving a wrong cue, had jerked the
play abruptly into Act III. (where his colleagues, dimly suspecting
something wrong, but not knowing what, had kept it for
some two minutes, to the mystification of the audience); but now
even he had begun to forget. As he two-stepped down the room
the lines of agony on his face were softened. He even smiled.</p>
<p>As for Spennie, the brilliance of his happy grin dazzled all
beholders.</p>
<p>He was still wearing it when he invaded the solitude of Mr.
McEachern. In every dance, however greatly he may be enjoying
it, there comes a time when a man needs a meditative cigarette
apart from the throng. It came to Spennie after the seventh item
on the programme. The billiard room struck him as admirably
suitable in every way. It was not likely to be used as a sitting out
place, and it was near enough to the ballroom to enable him to
hear when the music of item No. 9 should begin.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_186">186</div>
<p>Mr. McEachern was glad to see him. In the turmoil following the
theatricals he had been unable to get a word with any of the
persons with whom he most wished to speak. He had been surprised
that no announcement of the engagement had been made
at the end of the performance. Spennie would be able to supply
him with information as to when the announcement might be
expected.</p>
<p>Spennie hesitated for an instant when he saw who was in the
room. He was not over-anxious for a <i>tête-à-tête</i> with Molly’s
father just then; but reflecting that after all he, Spennie, was not
to blame for any disappointment that might be troubling the
other, he switched on his grin again and walked in.</p>
<p>“Came in for a smoke,” he explained, by way of opening the
conversation. “Not dancing the next.”</p>
<p>“Come in, my boy, come in,” said Mr. McEachern. “I was
waiting to see you.”</p>
<p>Spennie regretted his entrance. He had supposed that the other
had heard the news of the breaking-off of the engagement.
Evidently, from his manner, he had not. This was a nuisance.</p>
<p>He sat down and lit a cigarette, casting about the while for an
innocuous topic of conversation.</p>
<p>“Like the show?” he inquired.</p>
<p>“Fine,” said Mr. McEachern. “By the way—”</p>
<p>Spennie groaned inwardly. He had forgotten that a determined
man can change the conversation to any subject he pleases by
means of those three words.</p>
<p>“By the way,” said Mr. McEachern, “I thought Sir Thomas—wasn’t
your uncle intending to announce——?”</p>
<p>“Well, yes, he was,” said Spennie.</p>
<p>“Going to declare it during the dancing, maybe?”</p>
<p>“Well—er—no. The fact is, he’s not going to do it at all,
don’t you know.” He inspected the red end of his cigarette
closely. “As a matter of fact, it’s kind of broken off.”</p>
<p>The other’s exclamation jarred on him. Rotten, having to talk
about this sort of thing!</p>
<p>“Broken off?”</p>
<p>Spennie nodded.</p>
<p>“Miss McEachern thought it over, don’t you know,” he said,
“and came to the conclusion that it wasn’t good enough.”</p>
<p>Now that it was said he felt easier. It had merely been the
awkwardness of having to touch on the thing that had troubled
<span class="pb" id="Page_187">187</span>
him. That his news might be a blow to McEachern did not cross
his mind. He was a singularly modest youth, and though he
realised vaguely that his title had a certain value in some people’s
eyes, he could not understand anyone mourning over the loss of
him as a son-in-law. Katie’s father, the old general, thought him a
fool, and once, during an attack of gout, had said so.</p>
<p>Oblivious, therefore, to the storm raging a yard away from
him, he smoked on with great contentment, till suddenly it
struck him that, for a presumably devout lover, jilted that very
night, he was displaying too little emotion. He debated swiftly
within himself whether he should have a dash at manly grief, but
came to the conclusion that it could not be done. Melancholy on
this maddest, merriest day of all the glad New Year, the day on
which he had utterly routed the powers of evil, as represented by
Sir Thomas, was impossible.</p>
<p>“It wouldn’t have done, don’t you know,” he said. “We weren’t
suited. What I mean to say is, I’m a bit of a dashed sort of silly
ass in some ways, if you know what I mean. A girl like Miss
McEachern couldn’t have been happy with me. She wants one
of those capable, energetic fellers.”</p>
<p>This struck him as a good beginning—modest but not grovelling.
He continued, tapping quite a respectably deep vein of
philosophy as he spoke.</p>
<p>“You see, dear old top—I mean sir—you see, it’s like this. As
far as women are concerned, fellers are divided into two classes.
There’s the masterful, capable Johnnies and the—er—the other
sort. Now, I’m the other sort. My idea of the happy married life
is to be—well, not exactly downtrodden, but—you know what I
mean—kind of second fiddle. I want a wife”—his voice grew
soft and dreamy—“who’ll pet me a good deal, don’t you know,
stroke my hair a lot, and all that. I haven’t it in me to do the
master-in-my-own-house business. For me the silent-devotion
touch—sleepin’ on the mat outside her door, don’t you know,
when she wasn’t feeling well, and bein’ found there in the morning,
and being rather cosseted for my thoughtfulness. That’s the
sort of idea. Hard to put it quite OK., but you know the sort of
thing I mean. A feller’s got to realise his jolly old limitations if he
wants to be happy though married; what? Now, suppose Miss
McEachern was to marry me! Great Scot, she’d be bored to
death in a week! Honest. She couldn’t help herself. She wants a
chap with the same amount of go in him that she’s got.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_188">188</div>
<p>He lit another cigarette. He was feeling pleased with himself.
Never before had ideas marshalled themselves in his mind in such
long and well-ordered ranks. He felt that he could go on talking
like this all night. He was getting brainier every minute. He
remembered reading in some book somewhere of a girl (or
chappie) who had had her (or his) “hour of clear vision”. This was
precisely what had happened now. Whether it was owing to the
excitement of what had taken place that night, or because he had
been keeping up his thinking powers with excellent dry champagne,
he did not know. All he knew was that he felt on top of his
subject. He wished he had had a larger audience. “A girl like Miss
McEachern,” he resumed, “doesn’t want any of the hair-stroking
business. She’d simply laugh at a feller if he asked for it.
She needs a chappie of the Get On or Get Out type—somebody
in the six-cylinder class. And as a matter of fact, between ourselves,
I rather think she’s found him.”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern half rose from his chair. All his old fears had
come surging back.</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>“Fact,” said his lordship, nodding. “Mind you, I don’t know
for certain. As the girl says in the song, I don’t know, but I guess.
What I mean to say is, they seemed jolly friendly and all that—calling
each other by their Christian names, and so on.”</p>
<p>“Who?”</p>
<p>“Pitt,” said his lordship. He was leaning back, blowing a
smoke-ring at the moment, so did not see the look on the other’s
face and the sudden grip of his fingers on the arms of his chair.
He went on with some enthusiasm.</p>
<p>“Jimmy Pitt!” he said. “Now, there’s a feller. Full of oats to
the brim, and fairly bursting with go and energy. A girl wouldn’t
have a dull moment with a chap like that. You know,” he proceeded
confidentially, “there’s a lot in this idea of affinities. Take
my word for it, dear old—sir. There’s a girl up in London, for
instance. Now, she and I hit it off most amazingly. There’s hardly
a thing we don’t think alike about. For instance, ‘The Merry
Widow’ didn’t make a bit of a hit with her; nor did it with me,
yet look at the millions of people who raved about it. And neither
of us like oysters. We’re affinities—that’s why. You see the same
sort of thing all over the place. It’s a jolly queer business. Sometimes
makes me believe in re—in-what’s-its-name—you know
<span class="pb" id="Page_189">189</span>
what I mean. All that in the poem, you know. How does it go?
‘When you were a tiddley-om-pom and I was a thingummajig.’
Dashed brainy bit of work. I was reading it only the other day.
Well, what I mean to say is, it’s my belief that Jimmy Pitt and
Miss McEachern are by way of being something in that line.
Doesn’t it strike you that they are just the sort to get on together?
You can see it with half an eye. You can’t help liking a feller like
Jimmy Pitt. He’s a sport! I wish I could tell you some of the
things he’s done, but I can’t, for reasons; but you can take it
from me he’s a sport. You ought to cultivate him. You’d like
him.... Oh, dash it! there’s the music! I must be off. Got to
dance this one.”</p>
<p>He rose from his chair and dropped his cigarette into the ash-tray.</p>
<p>“So long,” he said, with a friendly nod. “Wish I could stop,
but it’s no go. That’s the last let-up I shall have to-night.”</p>
<p>He went out, leaving Mr. McEachern seated in his chair, a
prey to many and varied emotions.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_190">190</div>
<h2 id="c29"><span class="small">★ 29 ★</span>
<br /><i>The Last Round</i></h2>
<p>He had only been gone a few minutes when Mr. McEachern’s
meditations were again interrupted. This time the visitor
was a stranger to him—a dark-faced, clean-shaven man. He did
not wear evening clothes, so could not be one of the guests; and
Mr. McEachern could not place him immediately. Then he
remembered. He had seen him in Sir Thomas Blunt’s dressing
room. This was Sir Thomas’s valet.</p>
<p>“Might I have a word with you, sir?”</p>
<p>“What is it?” asked McEachern, staring heavily. His mind had
not recovered from the effect of Lord Dreever’s philosophical
remarks. There was something of a cloud on his brain. To judge
from his lordship’s words, things had been happening behind his
back; and the idea of Molly deceiving him was too strange to be
assimilated in an instant. He looked at the valet dully.</p>
<p>“What is it?” he asked again.</p>
<p>“I must apologise for intruding, but I thought it best to
approach you before making my report to Sir Thomas.”</p>
<p>“Your report?”</p>
<p>“I am employed by a private inquiry agency.”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“Yes, sir—Wragge’s. You may have heard of us, in Holborn
Bars; very old established, divorce a speciality. You will have seen
the advertisements. Sir Thomas wrote asking for a man, and the
governor sent me down. I have been with the house some years.
My job, I gathered, was to keep my eyes open generally. Sir
Thomas, it seemed, had no suspicions of any definite person. I
was to be on the spot just in case, in a manner of speaking. And
it’s precious lucky I was, or her ladyship’s jewels would have been
gone. I’ve done a fair cop this very night.”</p>
<p>He paused, and eyed the ex-policeman keenly. McEachern was
obviously excited. Could Jimmy have made an attempt on the
jewels during the dance? Or Spike?</p>
<p>“Say,” he said, “was it a red headed——?”</p>
<p>The detective was watching him with a curious smile.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_191">191</div>
<p>“No, he wasn’t red headed. You seem interested, sir. I thought
you would be. I will tell you all about it. I had had my suspicions
of this party ever since he arrived. And I may say that it struck
me at the time that there was something mighty fishy about the
way he got into the castle.”</p>
<p>McEachern started. So he had not been the only one to suspect
Jimmy’s motives in attaching himself to Lord Dreever.</p>
<p>“Go on,” he said.</p>
<p>“I suspected that there was some game on, and it struck me
that this would be the day for the attempt, the house being upside
down, in a manner of speaking, on account of the theatricals. And
I was right. I kept near those jewels on and off all day, and presently,
just as I had thought, along comes this fellow. He’d hardly
got to the door when I was on him.”</p>
<p>“Good boy! You’re no rube.”</p>
<p>“We fought for a while, but, being a bit to the good in strength,
and knowing something about the game, I had the irons on him
pretty quick, and took him off and locked him in the cellar.
That’s how it was, sir.”</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern’s relief was overwhelming. If Lord Dreever’s
statement was correct, and Jimmy had really succeeded in
winning Molly’s affection, this would be indeed a rescue at the
eleventh hour. It was with a <i>Nunc Dimittis</i> air he felt for his cigar
case and extended it towards the detective. A cigar from his own
private case was with him a mark of the supremest favour and
good will—a sort of accolade which he bestowed only upon the
really meritorious few.</p>
<p>Usually it was received with becoming deference, but on this
occasion there was a somewhat startling deviation from routine,
for, just as he was opening the case, something cold and hard
pressed against each of his wrists; there was a snap and a click,
and looking up, dazed, he saw that the detective had sprung back,
and was contemplating him with a grim smile over the barrel of
an ugly-looking little revolver.</p>
<p>Guilty or innocent, the first thing a man does, when he finds
handcuffs on his wrists, is to try to get them off. The action is
automatic. Mr. McEachern strained at the steel chain till the
veins stood out on his forehead. His great body shook with rage.</p>
<p>The detective eyed his efforts with some satisfaction. The
picture presented by the other, as he heaved and tugged, was
that of a guilty man trapped.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_192">192</div>
<p>“It’s no good, my friend,” he said.</p>
<p>His voice brought McEachern back to his senses. In the first
shock of the thing the primitive man in him had led him beyond
the confines of self-restraint. He had simply struggled unthinkingly.
Now he came to himself again.</p>
<p>He shook his manacled hands furiously.</p>
<p>“What does this mean?” he shouted. “What the——”</p>
<p>“Less noise,” said the detective sharply. “Get back!” he
snapped, as the other took a step forward.</p>
<p>“Do you know who I am?” thundered McEachern.</p>
<p>“No,” said the detective. “And that’s just why you’re wearing
those bracelets. Come, now, don’t be a fool, the game’s up;
can’t you see that?”</p>
<p>McEachern leaned helplessly against the billiard-table. He
felt weak. Everything was unreal. Had he gone mad? he
wondered.</p>
<p>“That’s right,” said the detective—“stay there. You can’t do
any harm there. It was a pretty little game, I’ll admit. You worked
it well—meeting your old friend from New York and all, and
having him invited to the castle. Very pretty. New York, indeed!
Seen about as much of New York as I have of Timbuctoo. I saw
through him.”</p>
<p>Some inkling of the truth began to penetrate McEachern’s
consciousness. He had become so obsessed with the idea that, as
the captive was not Spike, it must be Jimmy, that the possibility
of Mr. Galer being the subject of discussion only dawned upon
him now.</p>
<p>“What do you mean?” he cried. “Who is it that you have
arrested?”</p>
<p>“Blest if I know. You can tell me that, I should think, seeing
he’s an old Timbuctoo friend of yours. Galer’s the name he goes
by here.”</p>
<p>“Galer!”</p>
<p>“That’s the man. And do you know what he had the impudence,
the gall, to tell me? That he was in my own line of business.
A detective! He said you had sent for him to come here.”</p>
<p>He laughed amusedly at the recollection.</p>
<p>“And so he is, you fool. So I did.”</p>
<p>“Oh, you did, did you? And what business had you bringing
detectives into other people’s houses?”</p>
<p>Mr. McEachern started to answer, but checked himself. Never
<span class="pb" id="Page_193">193</span>
before had he appreciated to the full the depth and truth of the
proverb relating to the frying-pan and the fire. To clear himself
he must mention his suspicions of Jimmy, and also his reasons for
those suspicions. And to do that would mean revealing his past.
It was Scylla and Charybdis.</p>
<p>A drop of perspiration trickled down his temple.</p>
<p>“What’s the good?” said the detective. “Mighty ingenious
idea, that, only you hadn’t allowed for there being a real detective
in the house. It was that chap pitching me that yarn that made me
suspicious of you. I put two and two together. ‘Partners,’ I said
to myself. I’d heard all about you, scraping acquaintance with Sir
Thomas and all. Mighty ingenious. You become the old family
friend, and then you let in your pal. He gets the stuff and hands
it over to you. Nobody dreams of suspecting you, and there you
are. Honestly, now, wasn’t that the game?”</p>
<p>“It’s all a mistake——” McEachern was beginning, when the
door-handle turned.</p>
<p>The detective looked over his shoulder. McEachern glared
dumbly. This was the crowning blow, that there should be
spectators of his predicament.</p>
<p>Jimmy strolled into the room.</p>
<p>“Dreever told me you were in here,” he said to McEachern.
“Can you spare me a—— Halloa!”</p>
<p>The detective had pocketed his revolver at the first sound of
the handle—to be discreet was one of the chief articles in the
creed of the young men from Wragge’s Detective Agency—but
handcuffs are not easily concealed. Jimmy stood staring in
amazement at McEachern’s wrists.</p>
<p>“Some sort of a round game?” he inquired with interest.</p>
<p>The detective became confidential.</p>
<p>“It’s this way, Mr. Pitt. There’s been some pretty deep work
going on here. There’s a regular gang of burglars in the place.
This chap here’s one of them.”</p>
<p>“What, Mr. McEachern?”</p>
<p>“That’s what he calls himself.”</p>
<p>It was all Jimmy could do to keep himself from asking Mr.
McEachern whether he attributed his downfall to drink. He
contented himself with a sorrowful shake of the head at the
fermenting captive. Then he took up the part of counsel for the
defence.</p>
<p>“I don’t believe it,” he said. “What makes you think so?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_194">194</div>
<p>“Why, this afternoon I caught this man’s pal—the fellow that
calls himself Galer——”</p>
<p>“I know the man,” said Jimmy. “He’s a detective really. Mr.
McEachern brought him down here.”</p>
<p>The sleuth’s jaw dropped limply, as if he had received a blow.</p>
<p>“What?” he said, in a feeble voice.</p>
<p>“Didn’t I tell you——” began Mr. McEachern; but the sleuth
was occupied with Jimmy. That sickening premonition of
disaster was beginning to steal over him. Dimly he began to
perceive that he had blundered.</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Jimmy. “Why, I can’t say; but Mr. McEachern
was afraid some one might try to steal Lady Julia Blunt’s rope of
diamonds, so he wrote to London for this man Galer. It was
officious, perhaps, but not criminal. I doubt if, legally, you
could handcuff a man for a thing like that. What have you done
with good Mr. Galer?”</p>
<p>“I’ve locked him in the coal-cellar,” said the detective dismally.
The thought of the interview in prospect with the human bloodhound
he had so mishandled was not exhilarating.</p>
<p>“Locked him in the cellar, did you?” said Jimmy. “Well, well,
I dare say he’s very happy there. He’s probably busy detecting
black-beetles. Still, perhaps you had better go and let him out.
Possibly if you were to apologise to him—— Eh? Just as you
think—I only suggest. If you want somebody to vouch for Mr.
McEachern’s non-burglariousness, I can do it. He is a gentleman
of private means, and we knew each other out in New York.”</p>
<p>“I never thought——”</p>
<p>“That,” said Jimmy, with sympathetic friendliness, “if you
will allow me to say so, is the cardinal mistake you detectives
make. You never do think.”</p>
<p>“It never occurred to me——”</p>
<p>He took the key of the handcuffs from his pocket and toyed
with it. Mr. McEachern emitted a low growl. It was enough.</p>
<p>“If you wouldn’t mind, Mr. Pitt,” said the detective obsequiously.
He thrust the key into Jimmy’s hands and fled.
Jimmy unlocked the handcuffs. Mr. McEachern rubbed his
wrists.</p>
<p>“Ingenious little things,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“I’m much obliged to you,” growled Mr. McEachern, without
looking up.</p>
<p>“Not at all—a pleasure. This circumstantial evidence business
<span class="pb" id="Page_195">195</span>
is the devil, isn’t it? I knew a man who broke into a house in New
York to win a bet, and to this day the owner of the house thinks
him a professional burglar.”</p>
<p>“What’s that?” said Mr. McEachern sharply.</p>
<p>“Why do I say ‘a man’? Why am I so elusive and mysterious?
You’re quite right. It sounds more dramatic; but, after all, what
you want is facts. Very well. I broke into your house that night
to win a bet. That’s the limpid truth.”</p>
<p>McEachern was staring at him. Jimmy proceeded.</p>
<p>“You are just about to ask—what was Spike Mullins doing
with me? Well, Spike had broken into my flat an hour before,
and I took him along with me as a sort of guide, philosopher, and
friend.”</p>
<p>“Spike Mullins said you were a burglar from England.”</p>
<p>“I’m afraid I rather led him to think so. I had been to see the
opening performance of a burglar-play called <i>Love, the Cracksman</i>,
that night, and I worked off on Spike some severely technical
information I had received from a pal of mine who played lead
in the show. I told you when I came in that I had been talking to
Lord Dreever. Well, what he was saying to me was that he had
met this very actor-man, a fellow called Mifflin—Arthur Mifflin—in
London just before he met me. He’s in London now, rehearsing
for a show that’s come over from America. You see the importance
of this item? It means that if you doubt my story all you
need to do is to find Mifflin—I forget what theatre his play is
coming on at, but you could find out in a second—and ask him to
corroborate. Are you satisfied?”</p>
<p>McEachern did not answer. An hour before he would have
fought to the last ditch for his belief in Jimmy’s crookedness, but
the events of the last ten minutes had shaken him. He felt something
of a reaction in Jimmy’s favour.</p>
<p>“Look here, Mr. McEachern,” said Jimmy, “I wish you would
listen quietly to me for a minute or two. There’s really no reason
on earth why we should be at one another’s throats in this way.
We might just as well be friends. Let’s shake hands and call the
fight off. I suppose you know why I came here to see you?”
McEachern did not speak.</p>
<p>“You know that your daughter has broken off her engagement
to Lord Dreever?”</p>
<p>“Then he was right!” said McEachern, half to himself. “It is
you?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_196">196</div>
<p>Jimmy nodded. McEachern drummed his fingers on the table
and stared thoughtfully at him.</p>
<p>“Is Molly——?” he said, at length. “Does Molly——?”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>McEachern continued his drumming.</p>
<p>“Don’t think there’s been anything underhand about this,”
said Jimmy. “She absolutely refused to do anything unless you
gave your consent. She said you had been partners all her life,
and she was going to do the square thing by you.”</p>
<p>“She did?” said McEachern eagerly.</p>
<p>“I think you ought to do the square thing by her. I’m not
much, but she wants me. Do the square thing by her.”</p>
<p>McEachern was staring straight in front of him. There was a
look in his eyes which Jimmy had never seen there before—a
frightened, hunted look.</p>
<p>“It’s too late,” he burst out. “I’ll be square with her now, but
it’s too late. I won’t stand in her way when I can make her happy.
But I’ll lose her! Oh, my God, I’ll lose her!</p>
<p>“Did you think I had never said to myself,” he went on, “the
things you said to me that day when we met here? Did you think
I didn’t know what I was? Who should know it better than
myself? But she didn’t—I’d kept it from her. I’d sweat for fear
she would find out some day. When I came over here I thought
I was safe; and then you came, and I saw you together. I thought
you were a crook—you were with Mullins in New York—I told
her you were a crook.”</p>
<p>“You told her that?”</p>
<p>“I said I knew it. I couldn’t tell her the truth why I thought so.
I said I had made inquiries in New York and found out about
you.”</p>
<p>Jimmy saw now. The mystery was solved. So that was why
Molly had allowed them to force her into the engagement with
Dreever.</p>
<p>“I see,” he said slowly.</p>
<p>McEachern gripped the table in silence.</p>
<p>“I see,” said Jimmy again. “You mean she’ll want an explanation?”</p>
<p>He thought for a moment.</p>
<p>“You must tell her,” he said quickly. “For your own sake you
must tell her. Go and do it now. Wake up, man!” He shook him
by the shoulder. “Go and do it now. She’ll forgive you. Don’t be
<span class="pb" id="Page_197">197</span>
afraid of that. Go and look for her and tell her now.”</p>
<p>McEachern roused himself.</p>
<p>“I will,” he said.</p>
<p>“It’s the only way,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>McEachern opened the door, then fell back a pace. Jimmy
could hear voices in the passage outside. He recognised Lord
Dreever’s.</p>
<p>McEachern continued to back away from the door.</p>
<p>Lord Dreever entered, with Molly on his arm.</p>
<p>“Halloa!” said his lordship, looking round.</p>
<p>“Halloa, Pitt! Here we all are; what?”</p>
<p>“Lord Dreever wanted to smoke,” said Molly.</p>
<p>She smiled, but there was anxiety in her eyes. She looked
quickly at her father and at Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Molly, my dear,” said McEachern huskily, “I want to speak
to you for a moment.”</p>
<p>Jimmy took his lordship by the arm.</p>
<p>“Come along, Dreever,” he said. “You can come and sit out
with me. We’ll go and smoke on the terrace.”</p>
<p>They left the room together.</p>
<p>“What does the old boy want?” inquired his lordship. “Are
you and Miss McEachern——?”</p>
<p>“We are,” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“By Jove! I say, old chap! Million congratulations and all that
sort of rot, you know!”</p>
<p>His lordship had to resume his duties in the ballroom after a
while; but Jimmy sat on, smoking and thinking.</p>
<p>In the general stillness the opening of the door at the top of the
steps came sharply to his ears. He looked up. Two figures were
silhouetted for a moment against the light, and then the door
closed again. They began to move slowly down the steps.</p>
<p>Jimmy had recognised them. He got up. He was in the shadow;
they could not see him. They began to walk down the terrace.
They were quite close now. Neither was speaking, but presently,
when they were but a few feet away, they stopped. There was the
splutter of a match, and McEachern lit a cigar. In the yellow
light his face was clearly visible. Jimmy looked, and was content.</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_198">198</div>
<h2 id="c30"><span class="small">★ 30 ★</span>
<br /><i>Conclusion</i></h2>
<p>The American liner <i>St. Louis</i> lay in the Empress Dock at
Southampton, taking aboard her passengers. All sorts and
conditions of men flowed in an unceasing stream up the gangway.</p>
<p>Leaning over the second-class railing, Jimmy Pitt and Spike
Mullins watched them thoughtfully.</p>
<p>“Well, Spike,” said Jimmy, “your schooner’s on the tide now,
isn’t it? Your vessel’s at the quay. You’ve got some queer-looking
fellow-travellers. Don’t miss the two Cingalese sports and
the man in the turban and baggy breeches. I wonder if they’re
airtight? Useful if he fell overboard.”</p>
<p>“Sure,” said Spike, directing a contemplative eye towards the
garment in question. “He knows his business.”</p>
<p>“I wonder what those men on the deck are writing? They’ve
been scribbling away ever since we came here. Probably society
journalists. We shall see in next week’s papers, ‘Among the
second-class passengers we noticed Mr. “Spike” Mullins looking
as cheery as ever.’ It’s a pity you’re so set on going, Spike. Why
not change your mind and stop?”</p>
<p>For a moment Spike looked wistful. Then his countenance
resumed its woodenness. “Dere ain’t no use for me dis side, boss,”
he said. “New York’s de spot. Youse don’t want none of me now
you’re married. How’s Miss Molly, boss?”</p>
<p>“Splendid, Spike, thanks. We’re going over to France by to-night’s
boat.</p>
<p>“It’s been a queer business,” said Jimmy, after a pause—“a
deuced queer business. Still, I’ve come very well out of it, at any
rate. It seems to me that you’re the only one of us who doesn’t end
happily, Spike. I’m married. McEachern’s butted into society so
deep that it would take an excavating party with dynamite to get
him out of it. Molly—well, Molly’s made a bad bargain, but I
hope she won’t regret it. We’re all going some, except you.
You’re going out on the old trail again—which begins in Third
Avenue and ends in Sing Sing. Why tear yourself away, Spike?”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_199">199</div>
<p>Spike concentrated his gaze on a weedy young emigrant in a
blue jersey, who was having his eye examined by the overworked
doctor, and seemed to be resenting it.</p>
<p>“Dere’s nuttin’ doin’ dis side, boss,” he said at length. “I
want to get busy.”</p>
<p>“Ulysses Mullins!” said Jimmy, looking at him curiously. “I
know the feeling. There’s only one cure. I sketched it out for you
once, but I doubt if you’ll ever take it. You don’t think a lot of
women, do you? You’re the rugged bachelor.”</p>
<p>“Goils——!” began Spike comprehensively, and abandoned
the topic without dilating on it further.</p>
<p>“Dose were great jools, boss,” said Spike thoughtfully.</p>
<p>“I believe you’re still brooding over them, Spike.”</p>
<p>“We could have got away wit dem, if you’d have stood for it—dead
easy.”</p>
<p>“You are brooding over them. Spike, I’ll tell you something
which will console you a little before you start out on your
wanderings. It’s in confidence, so keep it dark. That necklace was
paste.”</p>
<p>“What’s dat?”</p>
<p>“Nothing but paste. I spotted it directly you handed them to
me. It wasn’t worth a hundred dollars.”</p>
<p>A light of understanding came into Spike’s eyes. His face
beamed with the smile of one to whom dark matters are made
clear.</p>
<p>“So dat’s why you wouldn’t stand for getting away wit it!” he
exclaimed.</p>
<p class="center"><span class="gs">* * * * * * * *</span></p>
<p>The last voyager had embarked. The deck was full to congestion.</p>
<p>“They’ll be sending us ashore in a minute,” said Jimmy. “I’d
better be moving. Let me know how you’re getting on, Spike,
from time to time. You know the address. And, I say, it’s just
possible you may find you want a dollar or two every now and
then—when you’re going to buy another aeroplane, for instance.
Well, you know where to write to for it, don’t you?”</p>
<p>“T’anks, boss. But dat’ll be all right. I’m goin’ to sit in at
anodder game dis time—politics, boss. A fr’en’ of a mug what I
knows has gotten a pull. He’ll find me a job.”</p>
<div class="pb" id="Page_200">200</div>
<p>“Politics!” said Jimmy. “I never thought of that. ‘My brother
Dan is an alderman with a grip on the Seventh Ward!’” he
quoted softly. “Why, you’ll be a boss before you know where you
are.”</p>
<p>“Sure,” said Spike, grinning modestly.</p>
<p>“You ought to be a thundering success in American politics,”
said Jimmy. “You’ve got all the necessary qualities.”</p>
<p>A steward passed.</p>
<p>“Any more for the shore?”</p>
<p>“Well, Spike——” said Jimmy.</p>
<p>“Good-bye, boss.”</p>
<p>“Good-bye,” said Jimmy. “And good luck.”</p>
<p class="center"><span class="gs">* * * * * * * *</span></p>
<p>The sun had gone behind the clouds. As the ship slid out on
its way a stray beam pierced the greyness.</p>
<p>It shone on a red head.</p>